By twelve o’clock the next day, Harry’s school trunk was packed
with his school things and all his most prized possessions —
the Invisibility Cloak he had inherited from his father, the broomstick
he had gotten from Sirius, the enchanted map of Hogwarts he
had been given by Fred and George Weasley last year. He had emptied
his hiding place under the loose floorboard of all food, doublechecked
every nook and cranny of his bedroom for forgotten
spellbooks or quills, and taken down the chart on the wall counting
down the days to September the first, on which he liked to
cross off the days remaining until his return to Hogwarts.
The atmosphere inside number four, Privet Drive was extremely
tense. The imminent arrival at their house of an assortment of wizards
was making the Dursleys uptight and irritable. Uncle Vernon
had looked downright alarmed when Harry informed him that the
Weasleys would be arriving at five o’clock the very next day.
“I hope you told them to dress properly, these people,” he
back to the burrow

snarled at once. “I’ve seen the sort of stuff your lot wear. They’d
better have the decency to put on normal clothes, that’s all.”
Harry felt a slight sense of foreboding. He had rarely seen Mr. or
Mrs. Weasley wearing anything that the Dursleys would call “normal.”
Their children might don Muggle clothing during the holidays,
but Mr. and Mrs. Weasley usually wore long robes in varying
states of shabbiness. Harry wasn’t bothered about what the neighbors
would think, but he was anxious about how rude the Dursleys
might be to the Weasleys if they turned up looking like their worst
idea of wizards.
Uncle Vernon had put on his best suit. To some people, this
might have looked like a gesture of welcome, but Harry knew it
was because Uncle Vernon wanted to look impressive and intimidating.
Dudley, on the other hand, looked somehow diminished.
This was not because the diet was at last taking effect, but due to
fright. Dudley had emerged from his last encounter with a fullygrown
wizard with a curly pig’s tail poking out of the seat of his
trousers, and Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon had had to pay for its
removal at a private hospital in London. It wasn’t altogether surprising,
therefore, that Dudley kept running his hand nervously
over his backside, and walking sideways from room to room, so as
not to present the same target to the enemy.
Lunch was an almost silent meal. Dudley didn’t even protest at
the food (cottage cheese and grated celery). Aunt Petunia wasn’t
eating anything at all. Her arms were folded, her lips were pursed,
and she seemed to be chewing her tongue, as though biting back
the furious diatribe she longed to throw at Harry.
“They’ll be driving, of course?” Uncle Vernon barked across the
table.

“Er,” said Harry.
He hadn’t thought of that. How were the Weasleys going to pick
him up? They didn’t have a car anymore; the old Ford Anglia they
had once owned was currently running wild in the Forbidden Forest
at Hogwarts. But Mr. Weasley had borrowed a Ministry of
Magic car last year; possibly he would do the same today?
“I think so,” said Harry.
Uncle Vernon snorted into his mustache. Normally, Uncle Vernon
would have asked what car Mr. Weasley drove; he tended to
judge other men by how big and expensive their cars were. But
Harry doubted whether Uncle Vernon would have taken to Mr.
Weasley even if he drove a Ferrari.
Harry spent most of the afternoon in his bedroom; he couldn’t
stand watching Aunt Petunia peer out through the net curtains
every few seconds, as though there had been a warning about an
escaped rhinoceros. Finally, at a quarter to five, Harry went back
downstairs and into the living room.
Aunt Petunia was compulsively straightening cushions. Uncle
Vernon was pretending to read the paper, but his tiny eyes were
not moving, and Harry was sure he was really listening with all his
might for the sound of an approaching car. Dudley was crammed
into an armchair, his porky hands beneath him, clamped firmly
around his bottom. Harry couldn’t take the tension; he left the
room and went and sat on the stairs in the hall, his eyes on his
watch and his heart pumping fast from excitement and nerves.
But five o’clock came and then went. Uncle Vernon, perspiring
slightly in his suit, opened the front door, peered up and down the
street, then withdrew his head quickly.
“They’re late!” he snarled at Harry.

“I know,” said Harry. “Maybe — er — the traffic’s bad, or
something.”
Ten past five . . . then a quarter past five . . . Harry was starting
to feel anxious himself now. At half past, he heard Uncle Vernon
and Aunt Petunia conversing in terse mutters in the living room.
“No consideration at all.”
“We might’ve had an engagement.”
“Maybe they think they’ll get invited to dinner if they’re late.”
“Well, they most certainly won’t be,” said Uncle Vernon, and
Harry heard him stand up and start pacing the living room.
“They’ll take the boy and go, there’ll be no hanging around. That’s
if they’re coming at all. Probably mistaken the day. I daresay their
kind don’t set much store by punctuality. Either that or they drive
some tin-pot car that’s broken d — AAAAAAAARRRRRGH!”
Harry jumped up. From the other side of the living room door
came the sounds of the three Dursleys scrambling, panic-stricken,
across the room. Next moment Dudley came flying into the hall,
looking terrified.
“What happened?” said Harry. “What’s the matter?”
But Dudley didn’t seem able to speak. Hands still clamped over
his buttocks, he waddled as fast as he could into the kitchen. Harry
hurried into the living room.
Loud bangings and scrapings were coming from behind the
Dursleys’ boarded-up fireplace, which had a fake coal fire plugged
in front of it.
“What is it?” gasped Aunt Petunia, who had backed into the wall
and was staring, terrified, toward the fire. “What is it, Vernon?”
But they were left in doubt barely a second longer. Voices could
be heard from inside the blocked fireplace.

“Ouch! Fred, no — go back, go back, there’s been some kind of
mistake — tell George not to — OUCH! George, no, there’s no
room, go back quickly and tell Ron —”
“Maybe Harry can hear us, Dad — maybe he’ll be able to let us
out —”
There was a loud hammering of fists on the boards behind the
electric fire.
“Harry? Harry, can you hear us?”
The Dursleys rounded on Harry like a pair of angry wolverines.
“What is this?” growled Uncle Vernon. “What’s going on?”
“They — they’ve tried to get here by Floo powder,” said Harry,
fighting a mad desire to laugh. “They can travel by fire — only
you’ve blocked the fireplace — hang on —”
He approached the fireplace and called through the boards.
“Mr. Weasley? Can you hear me?”
The hammering stopped. Somebody inside the chimney piece
said, “Shh!”
“Mr. Weasley, it’s Harry . . . the fireplace has been blocked up.
You won’t be able to get through there.”
“Damn!” said Mr. Weasley’s voice. “What on earth did they
want to block up the fireplace for?”
“They’ve got an electric fire,” Harry explained.
“Really?” said Mr. Weasley’s voice excitedly. “Eclectic, you say?
With a plug? Gracious, I must see that. . . . Let’s think . . . ouch,
Ron!”
Ron’s voice now joined the others’.
“What are we doing here? Has something gone wrong?”
“Oh no, Ron,” came Fred’s voice, very sarcastically. “No, this is
exactly where we wanted to end up.”

“Yeah, we’re having the time of our lives here,” said George,
whose voice sounded muffled, as though he was squashed against
the wall.
“Boys, boys . . .” said Mr. Weasley vaguely. “I’m trying to think
what to do. . . . Yes . . . only way . . . Stand back, Harry.”
Harry retreated to the sofa. Uncle Vernon, however, moved
forward.
“Wait a moment!” he bellowed at the fire. “What exactly are you
going to —”
BANG.
The electric fire shot across the room as the boarded-up fireplace
burst outward, expelling Mr. Weasley, Fred, George, and Ron in a
cloud of rubble and loose chippings. Aunt Petunia shrieked and fell
backward over the coffee table; Uncle Vernon caught her before she
hit the floor, and gaped, speechless, at the Weasleys, all of whom
had bright red hair, including Fred and George, who were identical
to the last freckle.
“That’s better,” panted Mr. Weasley, brushing dust from his long
green robes and straightening his glasses. “Ah — you must be
Harry’s aunt and uncle!”
Tall, thin, and balding, he moved toward Uncle Vernon, his
hand outstretched, but Uncle Vernon backed away several paces,
dragging Aunt Petunia. Words utterly failed Uncle Vernon. His
best suit was covered in white dust, which had settled in his hair
and mustache and made him look as though he had just aged thirty
years.
“Er — yes — sorry about that,” said Mr. Weasley, lowering his
hand and looking over his shoulder at the blasted fireplace. “It’s all

my fault. It just didn’t occur to me that we wouldn’t be able to get
out at the other end. I had your fireplace connected to the Floo
Network, you see — just for an afternoon, you know, so we could
get Harry. Muggle fireplaces aren’t supposed to be connected,
strictly speaking — but I’ve got a useful contact at the Floo Regulation
Panel and he fixed it for me. I can put it right in a jiffy,
though, don’t worry. I’ll light a fire to send the boys back, and then
I can repair your fireplace before I Disapparate.”
Harry was ready to bet that the Dursleys hadn’t understood a
single word of this. They were still gaping at Mr. Weasley, thunderstruck.
Aunt Petunia staggered upright again and hid behind
Uncle Vernon.
“Hello, Harry!” said Mr. Weasley brightly. “Got your trunk
ready?”
“It’s upstairs,” said Harry, grinning back.
“We’ll get it,” said Fred at once. Winking at Harry, he and
George left the room. They knew where Harry’s bedroom was, having
once rescued him from it in the dead of night. Harry suspected
that Fred and George were hoping for a glimpse of Dudley; they
had heard a lot about him from Harry.
“Well,” said Mr. Weasley, swinging his arms slightly, while he
tried to find words to break the very nasty silence. “Very — erm —
very nice place you’ve got here.”
As the usually spotless living room was now covered in dust and
bits of brick, this remark didn’t go down too well with the Dursleys.
Uncle Vernon’s face purpled once more, and Aunt Petunia
started chewing her tongue again. However, they seemed too
scared to actually say anything.

Mr. Weasley was looking around. He loved everything to do
with Muggles. Harry could see him itching to go and examine the
television and the video recorder.
“They run off eckeltricity, do they?” he said knowledgeably. “Ah
yes, I can see the plugs. I collect plugs,” he added to Uncle Vernon.
“And batteries. Got a very large collection of batteries. My wife
thinks I’m mad, but there you are.”
Uncle Vernon clearly thought Mr. Weasley was mad too. He
moved ever so slightly to the right, screening Aunt Petunia from
view, as though he thought Mr. Weasley might suddenly run at
them and attack.
Dudley suddenly reappeared in the room. Harry could hear the
clunk of his trunk on the stairs, and knew that the sounds had
scared Dudley out of the kitchen. Dudley edged along the wall,
gazing at Mr. Weasley with terrified eyes, and attempted to conceal
himself behind his mother and father. Unfortunately, Uncle Vernon’s
bulk, while sufficient to hide bony Aunt Petunia, was nowhere
near enough to conceal Dudley.
“Ah, this is your cousin, is it, Harry?” said Mr. Weasley, taking
another brave stab at making conversation.
“Yep,” said Harry, “that’s Dudley.”
He and Ron exchanged glances and then quickly looked away
from each other; the temptation to burst out laughing was almost
overwhelming. Dudley was still clutching his bottom as though
afraid it might fall off. Mr. Weasley, however, seemed genuinely
concerned at Dudley’s peculiar behavior. Indeed, from the tone
of his voice when he next spoke, Harry was quite sure that Mr.
Weasley thought Dudley was quite as mad as the Dursleys thought
he was, except that Mr. Weasley felt sympathy rather than fear.

“Having a good holiday, Dudley?” he said kindly.
Dudley whimpered. Harry saw his hands tighten still harder
over his massive backside.
Fred and George came back into the room carrying Harry’s
school trunk. They glanced around as they entered and spotted
Dudley. Their faces cracked into identical evil grins.
“Ah, right,” said Mr. Weasley. “Better get cracking then.”
He pushed up the sleeves of his robes and took out his wand.
Harry saw the Dursleys draw back against the wall as one.
“Incendio!” said Mr. Weasley, pointing his wand at the hole in
the wall behind him.
Flames rose at once in the fireplace, crackling merrily as though
they had been burning for hours. Mr. Weasley took a small drawstring
bag from his pocket, untied it, took a pinch of the powder
inside, and threw it onto the flames, which turned emerald green
and roared higher than ever.
“Off you go then, Fred,” said Mr. Weasley.
“Coming,” said Fred. “Oh no — hang on —”
A bag of sweets had spilled out of Fred’s pocket and the contents
were now rolling in every direction — big, fat toffees in brightly
colored wrappers.
Fred scrambled around, cramming them back into his pocket,
then gave the Dursleys a cheery wave, stepped forward, and walked
right into the fire, saying “the Burrow!” Aunt Petunia gave a
little shuddering gasp. There was a whooshing sound, and Fred
vanished.
“Right then, George,” said Mr. Weasley, “you and the trunk.”
Harry helped George carry the trunk forward into the flames
and turn it onto its end so that he could hold it better. Then, with

a second whoosh, George had cried “the Burrow!” and vanished
too.
“Ron, you next,” said Mr. Weasley.
“See you,” said Ron brightly to the Dursleys. He grinned
broadly at Harry, then stepped into the fire, shouted “the Burrow!”
and disappeared.
Now Harry and Mr. Weasley alone remained.
“Well . . .’bye then,” Harry said to the Dursleys.
They didn’t say anything at all. Harry moved toward the fire, but
just as he reached the edge of the hearth, Mr. Weasley put out
a hand and held him back. He was looking at the Dursleys in
amazement.
“Harry said good-bye to you,” he said. “Didn’t you hear him?”
“It doesn’t matter,” Harry muttered to Mr. Weasley. “Honestly, I
don’t care.”
Mr. Weasley did not remove his hand from Harry’s shoulder.
“You aren’t going to see your nephew till next summer,” he said
to Uncle Vernon in mild indignation. “Surely you’re going to say
good-bye?”
Uncle Vernon’s face worked furiously. The idea of being taught
consideration by a man who had just blasted away half his living
room wall seemed to be causing him intense suffering. But Mr. Weasley’s
wand was still in his hand, and Uncle Vernon’s tiny eyes darted
to it once, before he said, very resentfully, “Good-bye, then.”
“See you,” said Harry, putting one foot forward into the green
flames, which felt pleasantly like warm breath. At that moment,
however, a horrible gagging sound erupted behind him, and Aunt
Petunia started to scream.
Harry wheeled around. Dudley was no longer standing behind

his parents. He was kneeling beside the coffee table, and he was
gagging and sputtering on a foot-long, purple, slimy thing that was
protruding from his mouth. One bewildered second later, Harry
realized that the foot-long thing was Dudley’s tongue — and that
a brightly colored toffee wrapper lay on the floor before him.
Aunt Petunia hurled herself onto the ground beside Dudley,
seized the end of his swollen tongue, and attempted to wrench
it out of his mouth; unsurprisingly, Dudley yelled and sputtered
worse than ever, trying to fight her off. Uncle Vernon was bellowing
and waving his arms around, and Mr. Weasley had to shout to
make himself heard.
“Not to worry, I can sort him out!” he yelled, advancing on
Dudley with his wand outstretched, but Aunt Petunia screamed
worse than ever and threw herself on top of Dudley, shielding him
from Mr. Weasley.
“No, really!” said Mr. Weasley desperately. “It’s a simple process —
it was the toffee — my son Fred — real practical joker — but it’s
only an Engorgement Charm — at least, I think it is — please, I can
correct it —”
But far from being reassured, the Dursleys became more panicstricken;
Aunt Petunia was sobbing hysterically, tugging Dudley’s
tongue as though determined to rip it out; Dudley appeared to
be suffocating under the combined pressure of his mother and his
tongue; and Uncle Vernon, who had lost control completely, seized
a china figure from on top of the sideboard and threw it very hard
at Mr. Weasley, who ducked, causing the ornament to shatter in
the blasted fireplace.
“Now really!” said Mr. Weasley angrily, brandishing his wand.
“I’m trying to help!”

Bellowing like a wounded hippo, Uncle Vernon snatched up another
ornament.
“Harry, go! Just go!” Mr. Weasley shouted, his wand on Uncle
Vernon. “I’ll sort this out!”
Harry didn’t want to miss the fun, but Uncle Vernon’s second
ornament narrowly missed his left ear, and on balance he thought it
best to leave the situation to Mr. Weasley. He stepped into the fire,
looking over his shoulder as he said “the Burrow!” His last fleeting
glimpse of the living room was of Mr. Weasley blasting a third ornament
out of Uncle Vernon’s hand with his wand, Aunt Petunia
screaming and lying on top of Dudley, and Dudley’s tongue lolling
around like a great slimy python. But next moment Harry had begun
to spin very fast, and the Dursleys’ living room was whipped
out of sight in a rush of emerald-green flames.

Fred and George’s room,” said Ron quietly. “Great long price lists
for stuff they’ve invented. Joke stuff, you know. Fake wands and
trick sweets, loads of stuff. It was brilliant, I never knew they’d been
inventing all that . . .”
“We’ve been hearing explosions out of their room for ages, but
we never thought they were actually making things,” said Ginny.
“We thought they just liked the noise.”
“Only, most of the stuff— well, all of it, really — was a bit dangerous,”
said Ron, “and, you know, they were planning to sell it at
Hogwarts to make some money, and Mum went mad at them. Told
them they weren’t allowed to make any more of it, and burned all
the order forms. . . . She’s furious at them anyway. They didn’t get
as many O.W.L.s as she expected.”
O.W.L.s were Ordinary Wizarding Levels, the examinations
Hogwarts students took at the age of fifteen.
“And then there was this big row,” Ginny said, “because Mum
wants them to go into the Ministry of Magic like Dad, and they
told her all they want to do is open a joke shop.”
Just then a door on the second landing opened, and a face poked
out wearing horn-rimmed glasses and a very annoyed expression.
“Hi, Percy,” said Harry.
“Oh hello, Harry,” said Percy. “I was wondering who was making
all the noise. I’m trying to work in here, you know — I’ve got
a report to finish for the office — and it’s rather difficult to concentrate
when people keep thundering up and down the stairs.”
“We’re not thundering,” said Ron irritably. “We’re walking. Sorry if
we’ve disturbed the top-secret workings of the Ministry of Magic.”
“What are you working on?” said Harry.

“A report for the Department of International Magical Cooperation,”
said Percy smugly. “We’re trying to standardize cauldron
thickness. Some of these foreign imports are just a shade too
thin — leakages have been increasing at a rate of almost three percent
a year —”
“That’ll change the world, that report will,” said Ron. “Front
page of the Daily Prophet, I expect, cauldron leaks.”
Percy went slightly pink.
“You might sneer, Ron,” he said heatedly, “but unless some
sort of international law is imposed we might well find the market
flooded with flimsy, shallow-bottomed products that seriously
endanger —”
“Yeah, yeah, all right,” said Ron, and he started off upstairs
again. Percy slammed his bedroom door shut. As Harry, Hermione,
and Ginny followed Ron up three more flights of stairs, shouts
from the kitchen below echoed up to them. It sounded as though
Mr. Weasley had told Mrs. Weasley about the toffees.
The room at the top of the house where Ron slept looked much
as it had the last time that Harry had come to stay: the same posters
of Ron’s favorite Quidditch team, the Chudley Cannons, were
whirling and waving on the walls and sloping ceiling, and the fish
tank on the windowsill, which had previously held frog spawn,
now contained one extremely large frog. Ron’s old rat, Scabbers,
was here no more, but instead there was the tiny gray owl that had
delivered Ron’s letter to Harry in Privet Drive. It was hopping up
and down in a small cage and twittering madly.
“Shut up, Pig,” said Ron, edging his way between two of the
four beds that had been squeezed into the room. “Fred and George
are in here with us, because Bill and Charlie are in their room,” he

told Harry. “Percy gets to keep his room all to himself because he’s
got to work.”
“Er — why are you calling that owl Pig?” Harry asked Ron.
“Because he’s being stupid,” said Ginny. “Its proper name is
Pigwidgeon.”
“Yeah, and that’s not a stupid name at all,” said Ron sarcastically.
“Ginny named him,” he explained to Harry. “She reckons it’s
sweet. And I tried to change it, but it was too late, he won’t answer
to anything else. So now he’s Pig. I’ve got to keep him up here because
he annoys Errol and Hermes. He annoys me too, come to
that.”
Pigwidgeon zoomed happily around his cage, hooting shrilly.
Harry knew Ron too well to take him seriously. He had moaned
continually about his old rat, Scabbers, but had been most upset
when Hermione’s cat, Crookshanks, appeared to have eaten him.
“Where’s Crookshanks?” Harry asked Hermione now.
“Out in the garden, I expect,” she said. “He likes chasing gnomes.
He’s never seen any before.”
“Percy’s enjoying work, then?” said Harry, sitting down on one
of the beds and watching the Chudley Cannons zooming in and
out of the posters on the ceiling.
“Enjoying it?” said Ron darkly. “I don’t reckon he’d come home
if Dad didn’t make him. He’s obsessed. Just don’t get him onto the
subject of his boss. According to Mr. Crouch . . . as I was saying to Mr.
Crouch . . . Mr. Crouch is of the opinion . . . Mr. Crouch was telling
me ...They’ll be announcing their engagement any day now.”
“Have you had a good summer, Harry?” said Hermione. “Did
you get our food parcels and everything?”
“Yeah, thanks a lot,” said Harry. “They saved my life, those cakes.”

“And have you heard from — ?” Ron began, but at a look from
Hermione he fell silent. Harry knew Ron had been about to ask
about Sirius. Ron and Hermione had been so deeply involved in
helping Sirius escape from the Ministry of Magic that they were
almost as concerned about Harry’s godfather as he was. However,
discussing him in front of Ginny was a bad idea. Nobody but
themselves and Professor Dumbledore knew about how Sirius had
escaped, or believed in his innocence.
“I think they’ve stopped arguing,” said Hermione, to cover the
awkward moment, because Ginny was looking curiously from Ron
to Harry. “Shall we go down and help your mum with dinner?”
“Yeah, all right,” said Ron. The four of them left Ron’s room and
went back downstairs to find Mrs. Weasley alone in the kitchen,
looking extremely bad-tempered.
“We’re eating out in the garden,” she said when they came in.
“There’s just not room for eleven people in here. Could you take
the plates outside, girls? Bill and Charlie are setting up the tables.
Knives and forks, please, you two,” she said to Ron and Harry,
pointing her wand a little more vigorously than she had intended
at a pile of potatoes in the sink, which shot out of their skins so fast
that they ricocheted off the walls and ceiling.
“Oh for heaven’s sake,” she snapped, now directing her wand at
a dustpan, which hopped off the sideboard and started skating
across the floor, scooping up the potatoes. “Those two!” she burst
out savagely, now pulling pots and pans out of a cupboard, and
Harry knew she meant Fred and George. “I don’t know what’s going
to happen to them, I really don’t. No ambition, unless you
count making as much trouble as they possibly can. . . .”
Mrs. Weasley slammed a large copper saucepan down on the

kitchen table and began to wave her wand around inside it. A
creamy sauce poured from the wand-tip as she stirred.
“It’s not as though they haven’t got brains,” she continued irritably,
taking the saucepan over to the stove and lighting it with a further
poke of her wand, “but they’re wasting them, and unless they
pull themselves together soon, they’ll be in real trouble. I’ve had
more owls from Hogwarts about them than the rest put together. If
they carry on the way they’re going, they’ll end up in front of the
Improper Use of Magic Office.”
Mrs. Weasley jabbed her wand at the cutlery drawer, which shot
open. Harry and Ron both jumped out of the way as several knives
soared out of it, flew across the kitchen, and began chopping the
potatoes, which had just been tipped back into the sink by the
dustpan.
“I don’t know where we went wrong with them,” said Mrs.
Weasley, putting down her wand and starting to pull out still more
saucepans. “It’s been the same for years, one thing after another,
and they won’t listen to — OH NOT AGAIN!”
She had picked up her wand from the table, and it had emitted
a loud squeak and turned into a giant rubber mouse.
“One of their fake wands again!” she shouted. “How many times
have I told them not to leave them lying around?”
She grabbed her real wand and turned around to find that the
sauce on the stove was smoking.
“C’mon,” Ron said hurriedly to Harry, seizing a handful of cutlery
from the open drawer, “let’s go and help Bill and Charlie.”
They left Mrs. Weasley and headed out the back door into
the yard.
They had only gone a few paces when Hermione’s bandy-legged

ginger cat, Crookshanks, came pelting out of the garden, bottlebrush
tail held high in the air, chasing what looked like a muddy
potato on legs. Harry recognized it instantly as a gnome. Barely ten
inches high, its horny little feet pattered very fast as it sprinted
across the yard and dived headlong into one of the Wellington
boots that lay scattered around the door. Harry could hear the
gnome giggling madly as Crookshanks inserted a paw into the
boot, trying to reach it. Meanwhile, a very loud crashing noise was
coming from the other side of the house. The source of the commotion
was revealed as they entered the garden, and saw that Bill
and Charlie both had their wands out, and were making two battered
old tables fly high above the lawn, smashing into each other,
each attempting to knock the other’s out of the air. Fred and
George were cheering, Ginny was laughing, and Hermione was
hovering near the hedge, apparently torn between amusement and
anxiety.
Bill’s table caught Charlie’s with a huge bang and knocked
one of its legs off. There was a clatter from overhead, and they all
looked up to see Percy’s head poking out of a window on the second
floor.
“Will you keep it down?!” he bellowed.
“Sorry, Perce,” said Bill, grinning. “How’re the cauldron bottoms
coming on?”
“Very badly,” said Percy peevishly, and he slammed the window
shut. Chuckling, Bill and Charlie directed the tables safely onto the
grass, end to end, and then, with a flick of his wand, Bill reattached
the table leg and conjured tablecloths from nowhere.
By seven o’clock, the two tables were groaning under dishes and
dishes of Mrs. Weasley’s excellent cooking, and the nine Weasleys,

Harry, and Hermione were settling themselves down to eat beneath
a clear, deep-blue sky. To somebody who had been living on meals
of increasingly stale cake all summer, this was paradise, and at first,
Harry listened rather than talked as he helped himself to chicken
and ham pie, boiled potatoes, and salad.
At the far end of the table, Percy was telling his father all about
his report on cauldron bottoms.
“I’ve told Mr. Crouch that I’ll have it ready by Tuesday,” Percy
was saying pompously. “That’s a bit sooner than he expected it, but
I like to keep on top of things. I think he’ll be grateful I’ve done
it in good time, I mean, it’s extremely busy in our department just
now, what with all the arrangements for the World Cup. We’re just
not getting the support we need from the Department of Magical
Games and Sports. Ludo Bagman —”
“I like Ludo,” said Mr. Weasley mildly. “He was the one who
got us such good tickets for the Cup. I did him a bit of a favor: His
brother, Otto, got into a spot of trouble — a lawnmower with unnatural
powers — I smoothed the whole thing over.”
“Oh Bagman’s likable enough, of course,” said Percy dismissively,
“but how he ever got to be Head of Department . . . when I
compare him to Mr. Crouch! I can’t see Mr. Crouch losing a member
of our department and not trying to find out what’s happened
to them. You realize Bertha Jorkins has been missing for over a
month now? Went on holiday to Albania and never came back?”
“Yes, I was asking Ludo about that,” said Mr. Weasley, frowning.
“He says Bertha’s gotten lost plenty of times before now — though I
must say, if it was someone in my department, I’d be worried. . . .”
“Oh Bertha’s hopeless, all right,” said Percy. “I hear she’s been
shunted from department to department for years, much more
“Oh a fine way to spend six months!” she shrieked. “No wonder
you didn’t get more O.W.L.s!”
All in all, the atmosphere was not very friendly as they took their
departure. Mrs. Weasley was still glowering as she kissed Mr. Weasley
on the cheek, though not nearly as much as the twins, who
had each hoisted their rucksacks onto their backs and walked out
without a word to her.
“Well, have a lovely time,” said Mrs. Weasley, “and behave yourselves,”
she called after the twins’ retreating backs, but they did
not look back or answer. “I’ll send Bill, Charlie, and Percy along
around midday,” Mrs. Weasley said to Mr. Weasley, as he, Harry,
Ron, Hermione, and Ginny set off across the dark yard after Fred
and George.
It was chilly and the moon was still out. Only a dull, greenish
tinge along the horizon to their right showed that daybreak was
drawing closer. Harry, having been thinking about thousands of
wizards speeding toward the Quidditch World Cup, sped up to
walk with Mr. Weasley.
“So how does everyone get there without all the Muggles noticing?”
he asked.
“It’s been a massive organizational problem,” sighed Mr. Weasley.
“The trouble is, about a hundred thousand wizards turn up
at the World Cup, and of course, we just haven’t got a magical
site big enough to accommodate them all. There are places Muggles
can’t penetrate, but imagine trying to pack a hundred thousand
wizards into Diagon Alley or platform nine and three-quarters.
So we had to find a nice deserted moor, and set up as many antiMuggle
precautions as possible. The whole Ministry’s been working
on it for months. First, of course, we have to stagger the

arrivals. People with cheaper tickets have to arrive two weeks beforehand.
A limited number use Muggle transport, but we can’t
have too many clogging up their buses and trains — remember,
wizards are coming from all over the world. Some Apparate, of
course, but we have to set up safe points for them to appear, well
away from Muggles. I believe there’s a handy wood they’re using
as the Apparition point. For those who don’t want to Apparate, or
can’t, we use Portkeys. They’re objects that are used to transport
wizards from one spot to another at a prearranged time. You can do
large groups at a time if you need to. There have been two hundred
Portkeys placed at strategic points around Britain, and the nearest
one to us is up at the top of Stoatshead Hill, so that’s where we’re
headed.”
Mr. Weasley pointed ahead of them, where a large black mass
rose beyond the village of Ottery St. Catchpole.
“What sort of objects are Portkeys?” said Harry curiously.
“Well, they can be anything,” said Mr. Weasley. “Unobtrusive
things, obviously, so Muggles don’t go picking them up and playing
with them . . . stuff they’ll just think is litter. . . .”
They trudged down the dark, dank lane toward the village,
the silence broken only by their footsteps. The sky lightened very
slowly as they made their way through the village, its inky blackness
diluting to deepest blue. Harry’s hands and feet were freezing.
Mr. Weasley kept checking his watch.
They didn’t have breath to spare for talking as they began to
climb Stoatshead Hill, stumbling occasionally in hidden rabbit
holes, slipping on thick black tuffets of grass. Each breath Harry
took was sharp in his chest and his legs were starting to seize up
when, at last, his feet found level ground.

And yet it was because of Voldemort that Harry had come to live
with the Dursleys in the first place. If it hadn’t been for Voldemort,
Harry would not have had the lightning scar on his forehead. If it
hadn’t been for Voldemort, Harry would still have had parents. . . .
Harry had been a year old the night that Voldemort — the most
powerful Dark wizard for a century, a wizard who had been gaining
power steadily for eleven years — arrived at his house and
killed his father and mother. Voldemort had then turned his wand
on Harry; he had performed the curse that had disposed of many
full-grown witches and wizards in his steady rise to power — and,
incredibly, it had not worked. Instead of killing the small boy, the
curse had rebounded upon Voldemort. Harry had survived with
nothing but a lightning-shaped cut on his forehead, and Voldemort
had been reduced to something barely alive. His powers gone,
his life almost extinguished, Voldemort had fled; the terror in
which the secret community of witches and wizards had lived for
so long had lifted, Voldemort’s followers had disbanded, and Harry
Potter had become famous.
It had been enough of a shock for Harry to discover, on his eleventh
birthday, that he was a wizard; it had been even more disconcerting
to find out that everyone in the hidden Wizarding world
knew his name. Harry had arrived at Hogwarts to find that heads
turned and whispers followed him wherever he went. But he was
used to it now: At the end of this summer, he would be starting his
fourth year at Hogwarts, and Harry was already counting the days
until he would be back at the castle again.
But there was still a fortnight to go before he went back to
school. He looked hopelessly around his room again, and his eye

paused on the birthday cards his two best friends had sent him at
the end of July. What would they say if Harry wrote to them and
told them about his scar hurting?
At once, Hermione Granger’s voice seemed to fill his head, shrill
and panicky.
“Your scar hurt? Harry, that’s really serious. . . . Write to Professor
Dumbledore! And I’ll go and check Common Magical Ailments and Afflictions.
... Maybe there’s something in there about curse scars. . . . ”
Yes, that would be Hermione’s advice: Go straight to the headmaster
of Hogwarts, and in the meantime, consult a book. Harry
stared out of the window at the inky blue-black sky. He doubted
very much whether a book could help him now. As far as he knew,
he was the only living person to have survived a curse like Voldemort’s;
it was highly unlikely, therefore, that he would find his
symptoms listed in Common Magical Ailments and Afflictions. As
for informing the headmaster, Harry had no idea where Dumbledore
went during the summer holidays. He amused himself for a
moment, picturing Dumbledore, with his long silver beard, fulllength
wizard’s robes, and pointed hat, stretched out on a beach
somewhere, rubbing suntan lotion onto his long crooked nose.
Wherever Dumbledore was, though, Harry was sure that Hedwig
would be able to find him; Harry’s owl had never yet failed to deliver
a letter to anyone, even without an address. But what would
he write?
Dear Professor Dumbledore, Sorry to bother you, but my scar hurt
this morning. Yours sincerely, Harry Potter.
Even inside his head the words sounded stupid.
And so he tried to imagine his other best friend, Ron Weasley’s,

reaction, and in a moment, Ron’s red hair and long-nosed, freckled
face seemed to swim before Harry, wearing a bemused expression.
“Your scar hurt? But . . . but You-Know-Who can’t be near you
now, can he? I mean . . . you’d know, wouldn’t you? He’d be trying to
do you in again, wouldn’t he? I dunno, Harry, maybe curse scars always
twinge a bit. . . . I’ll ask Dad. . . .”
 Mr. Weasley was a fully qualified wizard who worked in the
Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office at the Ministry of Magic, but he
didn’t have any particular expertise in the matter of curses, as far
as Harry knew. In any case, Harry didn’t like the idea of the whole
Weasley family knowing that he, Harry, was getting jumpy about
a few moments’ pain. Mrs. Weasley would fuss worse than Hermione,
and Fred and George, Ron’s sixteen-year-old twin brothers,
might think Harry was losing his nerve. The Weasleys were Harry’s
favorite family in the world; he was hoping that they might invite
him to stay any time now (Ron had mentioned something about
the Quidditch World Cup), and he somehow didn’t want his visit
punctuated with anxious inquiries about his scar.
Harry kneaded his forehead with his knuckles. What he really
wanted (and it felt almost shameful to admit it to himself) was
someone like — someone like a parent: an adult wizard whose advice
he could ask without feeling stupid, someone who cared about
him, who had had experience with Dark Magic. . . .
And then the solution came to him. It was so simple, and so obvious,
that he couldn’t believe it had taken so long — Sirius.
Harry leapt up from the bed, hurried across the room, and sat
down at his desk; he pulled a piece of parchment toward him,
loaded his eagle-feather quill with ink, wrote Dear Sirius, then
paused, wondering how best to phrase his problem, still marveling

at the fact that he hadn’t thought of Sirius straight away. But then,
perhaps it wasn’t so surprising — after all, he had only found out
that Sirius was his godfather two months ago.
There was a simple reason for Sirius’s complete absence from
Harry’s life until then — Sirius had been in Azkaban, the terrifying
wizard jail guarded by creatures called dementors, sightless, soulsucking
fiends who had come to search for Sirius at Hogwarts
when he had escaped. Yet Sirius had been innocent — the murders
for which he had been convicted had been committed by Wormtail,
Voldemort’s supporter, whom nearly everybody now believed
dead. Harry, Ron, and Hermione knew otherwise, however; they
had come face-to-face with Wormtail only the previous year,
though only Professor Dumbledore had believed their story.
For one glorious hour, Harry had believed that he was leaving
the Dursleys at last, because Sirius had offered him a home once
his name had been cleared. But the chance had been snatched away
from him — Wormtail had escaped before they could take him to
the Ministry of Magic, and Sirius had had to flee for his life. Harry
had helped him escape on the back of a hippogriff called Buckbeak,
and since then, Sirius had been on the run. The home Harry might
have had if Wormtail had not escaped had been haunting him all
summer. It had been doubly hard to return to the Dursleys knowing
that he had so nearly escaped them forever.
Nevertheless, Sirius had been of some help to Harry, even if he
couldn’t be with him. It was due to Sirius that Harry now had all
his school things in his bedroom with him. The Dursleys had never
allowed this before; their general wish of keeping Harry as miserable
as possible, coupled with their fear of his powers, had led them
to lock his school trunk in the cupboard under the stairs every

summer prior to this. But their attitude had changed since they
had found out that Harry had a dangerous murderer for a godfather
— for Harry had conveniently forgotten to tell them that
Sirius was innocent.
Harry had received two letters from Sirius since he had been
back at Privet Drive. Both had been delivered, not by owls (as was
usual with wizards), but by large, brightly colored tropical birds.
Hedwig had not approved of these flashy intruders; she had been
most reluctant to allow them to drink from her water tray before
flying off again. Harry, on the other hand, had liked them; they
put him in mind of palm trees and white sand, and he hoped that,
wherever Sirius was (Sirius never said, in case the letters were intercepted),
he was enjoying himself. Somehow, Harry found it hard to
imagine dementors surviving for long in bright sunlight; perhaps
that was why Sirius had gone south. Sirius’s letters, which were
now hidden beneath the highly useful loose floorboard under Harry’s
bed, sounded cheerful, and in both of them he had reminded
Harry to call on him if ever Harry needed to. Well, he needed to
now, all right. . . .
Harry’s lamp seemed to grow dimmer as the cold gray light that
precedes sunrise slowly crept into the room. Finally, when the sun
had risen, when his bedroom walls had turned gold, and when
sounds of movement could be heard from Uncle Vernon and Aunt
Petunia’s room, Harry cleared his desk of crumpled pieces of parchment
and reread his finished letter.
Dear Sirius,
Thanks for your last letter. That bird was enormous; it
could hardly get through my window.

Things are the same as usual here. Dudley’s diet isn’t going
too well. My aunt found him smuggling doughnuts into his
room yesterday. They told him they’d have to cut his pocket
money if he keeps doing it, so he got really angry and chucked
his PlayStation out of the window. That’s a sort of computer
thing you can play games on. Bit stupid really, now he hasn’t
even got Mega-Mutilation Part Three to take his mind off
things.
I’m okay, mainly because the Dursleys are terrified you
might turn up and turn them all into bats if I ask you to.
A weird thing happened this morning, though. My scar
hurt again. Last time that happened it was because Voldemort
was at Hogwarts. But I don’t reckon he can be anywhere near
me now, can he? Do you know if curse scars sometimes hurt
years afterward?
I’ll send this with Hedwig when she gets back; she’s off hunting
at the moment. Say hello to Buckbeak for me.
Yes, thought Harry, that looked all right. There was no point putting
in the dream; he didn’t want it to look as though he was too
worried. He folded up the parchment and laid it aside on his desk,
ready for when Hedwig returned. Then he got to his feet, stretched,
and opened his wardrobe once more. Without glancing at his reflection,
he started to get dressed before going down to breakfast.

By the time Harry arrived in the kitchen, the three Dursleys
were already seated around the table. None of them looked up
as he entered or sat down. Uncle Vernon’s large red face was hidden
behind the morning’s Daily Mail, and Aunt Petunia was cutting a
grapefruit into quarters, her lips pursed over her horselike teeth.
Dudley looked furious and sulky, and somehow seemed to be
taking up even more space than usual. This was saying something,
as he always took up an entire side of the square table by himself.
When Aunt Petunia put a quarter of unsweetened grapefruit onto
Dudley’s plate with a tremulous “There you are, Diddy darling,”
Dudley glowered at her. His life had taken a most unpleasant
turn since he had come home for the summer with his end-of-year
report.
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia had managed to find excuses
for his bad marks as usual: Aunt Petunia always insisted that Dudley
was a very gifted boy whose teachers didn’t understand him,

while Uncle Vernon maintained that “he didn’t want some swotty
little nancy boy for a son anyway.” They also skated over the accusations
of bullying in the report — “He’s a boisterous little boy, but
he wouldn’t hurt a fly!” Aunt Petunia had said tearfully.
However, at the bottom of the report there were a few wellchosen
comments from the school nurse that not even Uncle Vernon
and Aunt Petunia could explain away. No matter how much
Aunt Petunia wailed that Dudley was big-boned, and that his
poundage was really puppy fat, and that he was a growing boy who
needed plenty of food, the fact remained that the school outfitters
didn’t stock knickerbockers big enough for him anymore. The
school nurse had seen what Aunt Petunia’s eyes — so sharp when
it came to spotting fingerprints on her gleaming walls, and in observing
the comings and goings of the neighbors — simply refused
to see: that far from needing extra nourishment, Dudley had
reached roughly the size and weight of a young killer whale.
So — after many tantrums, after arguments that shook Harry’s
bedroom floor, and many tears from Aunt Petunia — the new
regime had begun. The diet sheet that had been sent by the Smeltings
school nurse had been taped to the fridge, which had been
emptied of all Dudley’s favorite things — fizzy drinks and cakes,
chocolate bars and burgers — and filled instead with fruit and vegetables
and the sorts of things that Uncle Vernon called “rabbit
food.” To make Dudley feel better about it all, Aunt Petunia had
insisted that the whole family follow the diet too. She now passed
a grapefruit quarter to Harry. He noticed that it was a lot smaller
than Dudley’s. Aunt Petunia seemed to feel that the best way to
keep up Dudley’s morale was to make sure that he did, at least, get
more to eat than Harry.

But Aunt Petunia didn’t know what was hidden under the loose
floorboard upstairs. She had no idea that Harry was not following
the diet at all. The moment he had got wind of the fact that he was
expected to survive the summer on carrot sticks, Harry had sent
Hedwig to his friends with pleas for help, and they had risen to
the occasion magnificently. Hedwig had returned from Hermione’s
house with a large box stuffed full of sugar-free snacks. (Hermione’s
parents were dentists.) Hagrid, the Hogwarts gamekeeper, had
obliged with a sack full of his own homemade rock cakes. (Harry
hadn’t touched these; he had had too much experience of Hagrid’s
cooking.) Mrs. Weasley, however, had sent the family owl, Errol,
with an enormous fruitcake and assorted meat pies. Poor Errol, who
was elderly and feeble, had needed a full five days to recover from
the journey. And then on Harry’s birthday (which the Dursleys had
completely ignored) he had received four superb birthday cakes, one
each from Ron, Hermione, Hagrid, and Sirius. Harry still had two
of them left, and so, looking forward to a real breakfast when he got
back upstairs, he ate his grapefruit without complaint.
Uncle Vernon laid aside his paper with a deep sniff of disapproval
and looked down at his own grapefruit quarter.
“Is this it?” he said grumpily to Aunt Petunia.
Aunt Petunia gave him a severe look, and then nodded pointedly
at Dudley, who had already finished his own grapefruit quarter and
was eyeing Harry’s with a very sour look in his piggy little eyes.
Uncle Vernon gave a great sigh, which ruffled his large, bushy
mustache, and picked up his spoon.
The doorbell rang. Uncle Vernon heaved himself out of his chair
and set off down the hall. Quick as a flash, while his mother was

occupied with the kettle, Dudley stole the rest of Uncle Vernon’s
grapefruit.
Harry heard talking at the door, and someone laughing, and
Uncle Vernon answering curtly. Then the front door closed, and
the sound of ripping paper came from the hall.
Aunt Petunia set the teapot down on the table and looked curiously
around to see where Uncle Vernon had got to. She didn’t have
to wait long to find out; after about a minute, he was back. He
looked livid.
“You,” he barked at Harry. “In the living room. Now.”
Bewildered, wondering what on earth he was supposed to have
done this time, Harry got up and followed Uncle Vernon out of
the kitchen and into the next room. Uncle Vernon closed the door
sharply behind both of them.
“So,” he said, marching over to the fireplace and turning to face
Harry as though he were about to pronounce him under arrest.
“So.”
Harry would have dearly loved to have said, “So what?” but he
didn’t feel that Uncle Vernon’s temper should be tested this early in
the morning, especially when it was already under severe strain from
lack of food. He therefore settled for looking politely puzzled.
“This just arrived,” said Uncle Vernon. He brandished a piece of
purple writing paper at Harry. “A letter. About you.”
Harry’s confusion increased. Who would be writing to Uncle
Vernon about him? Who did he know who sent letters by the
postman?
Uncle Vernon glared at Harry, then looked down at the letter
and began to read aloud:

Dear Mr. and Mrs. Dursley,
We have never been introduced, but I am sure you have
heard a great deal from Harry about my son Ron.
As Harry might have told you, the final of the Quidditch
World Cup takes place this Monday night, and my husband,
Arthur, has just managed to get prime tickets through his connections
at the Department of Magical Games and Sports.
I do hope you will allow us to take Harry to the match, as
this really is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity; Britain hasn’t
hosted the Cup for thirty years, and tickets are extremely hard
to come by. We would of course be glad to have Harry stay for
the remainder of the summer holidays, and to see him safely
onto the train back to school.
It would be best for Harry to send us your answer as quickly
as possible in the normal way, because the Muggle postman has
never delivered to our house, and I am not sure he even knows
where it is.
Hoping to see Harry soon,
Yours sincerely,
P.S. I do hope we’ve put enough stamps on.
Uncle Vernon finished reading, put his hand back into his breast
pocket, and drew out something else.
“Look at this,” he growled.
He held up the envelope in which Mrs. Weasley’s letter had
come, and Harry had to fight down a laugh. Every bit of it was
covered in stamps except for a square inch on the front, into

which Mrs. Weasley had squeezed the Dursleys’ address in minute
writing.
“She did put enough stamps on, then,” said Harry, trying to
sound as though Mrs. Weasley’s was a mistake anyone could make.
His uncle’s eyes flashed.
“The postman noticed,” he said through gritted teeth. “Very interested
to know where this letter came from, he was. That’s why he
rang the doorbell. Seemed to think it was funny.”
Harry didn’t say anything. Other people might not understand
why Uncle Vernon was making a fuss about too many stamps,
but Harry had lived with the Dursleys too long not to know how
touchy they were about anything even slightly out of the ordinary.
Their worst fear was that someone would find out that they were
connected (however distantly) with people like Mrs. Weasley.
Uncle Vernon was still glaring at Harry, who tried to keep his
expression neutral. If he didn’t do or say anything stupid, he might
just be in for the treat of a lifetime. He waited for Uncle Vernon to
say something, but he merely continued to glare. Harry decided to
break the silence.
“So — can I go then?” he asked.
A slight spasm crossed Uncle Vernon’s large purple face. The
mustache bristled. Harry thought he knew what was going on behind
the mustache: a furious battle as two of Uncle Vernon’s most
fundamental instincts came into conflict. Allowing Harry to go
would make Harry happy, something Uncle Vernon had struggled
against for thirteen years. On the other hand, allowing Harry to
disappear to the Weasleys’ for the rest of the summer would get
rid of him two weeks earlier than anyone could have hoped, and
Uncle Vernon hated having Harry in the house. To give himself

thinking time, it seemed, he looked down at Mrs. Weasley’s letter
again.
“Who is this woman?” he said, staring at the signature with
distaste.
“You’ve seen her,” said Harry. “She’s my friend Ron’s mother, she
was meeting him off the Hog — off the school train at the end of
last term.”
He had almost said “Hogwarts Express,” and that was a sure way
to get his uncle’s temper up. Nobody ever mentioned the name of
Harry’s school aloud in the Dursley household.
Uncle Vernon screwed up his enormous face as though trying to
remember something very unpleasant.
“Dumpy sort of woman?” he growled finally. “Load of children
with red hair?”
Harry frowned. He thought it was a bit rich of Uncle Vernon
to call anyone “dumpy,” when his own son, Dudley, had finally
achieved what he’d been threatening to do since the age of three,
and become wider than he was tall.
Uncle Vernon was perusing the letter again.
“Quidditch,” he muttered under his breath. “Quidditch — what
is this rubbish?”
Harry felt a second stab of annoyance.
“It’s a sport,” he said shortly. “Played on broom —”
“All right, all right!” said Uncle Vernon loudly. Harry saw, with
some satisfaction, that his uncle looked vaguely panicky. Apparently
his nerves couldn’t stand the sound of the word “broomsticks”
in his living room. He took refuge in perusing the letter
again. Harry saw his lips form the words “send us your answer . . .
in the normal way.” He scowled.

“What does she mean, ‘the normal way’?” he spat.
“Normal for us,” said Harry, and before his uncle could stop
him, he added, “you know, owl post. That’s what’s normal for
wizards.”
Uncle Vernon looked as outraged as if Harry had just uttered a
disgusting swearword. Shaking with anger, he shot a nervous look
through the window, as though expecting to see some of the neighbors
with their ears pressed against the glass.
“How many times do I have to tell you not to mention that unnaturalness
under my roof?” he hissed, his face now a rich plum
color. “You stand there, in the clothes Petunia and I have put on
your ungrateful back —”
“Only after Dudley finished with them,” said Harry coldly, and
indeed, he was dressed in a sweatshirt so large for him that he had
had to roll back the sleeves five times so as to be able to use his
hands, and which fell past the knees of his extremely baggy jeans.
“I will not be spoken to like that!” said Uncle Vernon, trembling
with rage.
But Harry wasn’t going to stand for this. Gone were the days
when he had been forced to take every single one of the Dursleys’
stupid rules. He wasn’t following Dudley’s diet, and he wasn’t going
to let Uncle Vernon stop him from going to the Quidditch World
Cup, not if he could help it. Harry took a deep, steadying breath
and then said, “Okay, I can’t see the World Cup. Can I go now,
then? Only I’ve got a letter to Sirius I want to finish. You know —
my godfather.”
He had done it. He had said the magic words. Now he watched
the purple recede blotchily from Uncle Vernon’s face, making it
look like badly mixed black currant ice cream.

“You’re — you’re writing to him, are you?” said Uncle Vernon,
in a would-be calm voice — but Harry had seen the pupils of his
tiny eyes contract with sudden fear.
“Well — yeah,” said Harry, casually. “It’s been a while since he
heard from me, and, you know, if he doesn’t, he might start thinking
something’s wrong.”

M r. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were
proud to say that they were perfectly normal, thank
you very much.  ey were the last people you’d expect to be involved
in anything strange or mysterious, because they just didn’t
hold with such nonsense.
Mr. Dursley was the director of a fi rm called Grunnings, which
made drills. He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, although
he did have a very large mustache. Mrs. Dursley was thin
and blonde and had nearly twice the usual amount of neck, which
came in very useful as she spent so much of her time craning over
garden fences, spying on the neighbors.  e Dursleys had a small
son called Dudley and in their opinion there was no fi ner boy
anywhere.
 e Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had a
secret, and their greatest fear was that somebody would discover it.

didn’t think they could bear it if anyone found out about the
Potters. Mrs. Potter was Mrs. Dursley’s sister, but they hadn’t met
for several years; in fact, Mrs. Dursley pretended she didn’t have a
sister, because her sister and her good-for-nothing husband were
as unDursleyish as it was possible to be.  e Dursleys shuddered
to think what the neighbors would say if the Potters arrived in the
street.  e Dursleys knew that the Potters had a small son, too, but
they had never even seen him.  is boy was another good reason
for keeping the Potters away; they didn’t want Dudley mixing with
a child like that.
When Mr. and Mrs. Dursley woke up on the dull, gray Tuesday
our story starts, there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to
suggest that strange and mysterious things would soon be happening
all over the country. Mr. Dursley hummed as he picked out his
most boring tie for work, and Mrs. Dursley gossiped away happily
as she wrestled a screaming Dudley into his high chair.
None of them noticed a large, tawny owl fl utter past the
 window.
At half past eight, Mr. Dursley picked up his briefcase, pecked
Mrs. Dursley on the cheek, and tried to kiss Dudley good-bye but
missed, because Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing
his cereal at the walls. “Little tyke,” chortled Mr. Dursley as he left
the house. He got into his car and backed out of number four’s
drive.
It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the fi rst sign
of something peculiar — a cat reading a map. For a second, Mr.
Dursley didn’t realize what he had seen — then he jerked his head
around to look again.  ere was a tabby cat standing on the corner

of Privet Drive, but there wasn’t a map in sight. What could he
have been thinking of? It must have been a trick of the light. Mr.
Dursley blinked and stared at the cat. It stared back. As Mr. Dursley
drove around the corner and up the road, he watched the cat in
his mirror. It was now reading the sign that said Privet Drive — no,
looking at the sign; cats couldn’t read maps or signs. Mr. Dursley
gave himself a little shake and put the cat out of his mind. As he
drove toward town he thought of nothing except a large order of
drills he was hoping to get that day.
But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his mind
by something else. As he sat in the usual morning traffi c jam, he
couldn’t help noticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangely
dressed people about. People in cloaks. Mr. Dursley couldn’t bear
people who dressed in funny clothes — the getups you saw on
young people! He supposed this was some stupid new fashion. He
drummed his fi ngers on the steering wheel and his eyes fell on a
huddle of these weirdos standing quite close by.  ey were whispering
excitedly together. Mr. Dursley was enraged to see that a
couple of them weren’t young at all; why, that man had to be older
than he was, and wearing an emerald-green cloak!  e nerve of
him! But then it struck Mr. Dursley that this was probably some
silly stunt — these people were obviously collecting for something
. . . yes, that would be it.  e traffi c moved on and a few minutes
later, Mr. Dursley arrived in the Grunnings parking lot, his mind
back on drills.
Mr. Dursley always sat with his back to the window in his offi ce
on the ninth fl oor. If he hadn’t, he might have found it harder to
concentrate on drills that morning. He didn’t see the owls swooping

past in broad daylight, though people down in the street did; they
pointed and gazed open-mouthed as owl after owl sped overhead.
Most of them had never seen an owl even at nighttime. Mr. Dursley,
however, had a perfectly normal, owl-free morning. He yelled
at fi ve diff erent people. He made several important telephone calls
and shouted a bit more. He was in a very good mood until lunchtime,
when he thought he’d stretch his legs and walk across the
road to buy himself a bun from the bakery.
He’d forgotten all about the people in cloaks until he passed
a group of them next to the baker’s. He eyed them angrily as he
passed. He didn’t know why, but they made him uneasy.  is
bunch were whispering excitedly, too, and he couldn’t see a single
collecting tin. It was on his way back past them, clutching a large
doughnut in a bag, that he caught a few words of what they were
saying.
“ e Potters, that’s right, that’s what I heard —”
“— yes, their son, Harry —”
Mr. Dursley stopped dead. Fear fl ooded him. He looked back
at the whisperers as if he wanted to say something to them, but
thought better of it.
He dashed back across the road, hurried up to his offi ce, snapped
at his secretary not to disturb him, seized his telephone, and had
almost fi nished dialing his home number when he changed his
mind. He put the receiver back down and stroked his mustache,
thinking . . . no, he was being stupid. Potter wasn’t such an unusual
name. He was sure there were lots of people called Potter who
had a son called Harry. Come to think of it, he wasn’t even sure his
nephew was called Harry. He’d never even seen the boy. It might

have been Harvey. Or Harold.  ere was no point in worrying
Mrs. Dursley; she always got so upset at any mention of her sister.
He didn’t blame her — if he’d had a sister like that . . . but all the
same, those people in cloaks . . .
He found it a lot harder to concentrate on drills that afternoon
and when he left the building at fi ve o’clock, he was still so worried
that he walked straight into someone just outside the door.
“Sorry,” he grunted, as the tiny old man stumbled and almost
fell. It was a few seconds before Mr. Dursley realized that the man
was wearing a violet cloak. He didn’t seem at all upset at being almost
knocked to the ground. On the contrary, his face split into a
wide smile and he said in a squeaky voice that made passersby stare,
“Don’t be sorry, my dear sir, for nothing could upset me today! Rejoice,
for You-Know-Who has gone at last! Even Muggles like yourself
should be celebrating, this happy, happy day!”
And the old man hugged Mr. Dursley around the middle and
walked off .
Mr. Dursley stood rooted to the spot. He had been hugged by a
complete stranger. He also thought he had been called a Muggle,
whatever that was. He was rattled. He hurried to his car and set
off for home, hoping he was imagining things, which he had never
hoped before, because he didn’t approve of imagination.
As he pulled into the driveway of number four, the fi rst thing he
saw — and it didn’t improve his mood — was the tabby cat he’d
spotted that morning. It was now sitting on his garden wall. He
was sure it was the same one; it had the same markings around its
eyes.
“Shoo!” said Mr. Dursley loudly.

cat didn’t move. It just gave him a stern look. Was this normal
cat behavior? Mr. Dursley wondered. Trying to pull himself together,
he let himself into the house. He was still determined not to
mention anything to his wife.
Mrs. Dursley had had a nice, normal day. She told him over dinner
all about Mrs. Next Door’s problems with her daughter and how
Dudley had learned a new word (“Won’t!”). Mr. Dursley tried to
act normally. When Dudley had been put to bed, he went into the
living room in time to catch the last report on the evening news:
“And fi nally, bird-watchers everywhere have reported that the
nation’s owls have been behaving very unusually today. Although
owls normally hunt at night and are hardly ever seen in daylight,
there have been hundreds of sightings of these birds fl ying in every
direction since sunrise. Experts are unable to explain why the owls
have suddenly changed their sleeping pattern.”  e newscaster
allowed himself a grin. “Most mysterious. And now, over to Jim
 McGuffi n with the weather. Going to be any more showers of owls
tonight, Jim?”
“Well, Ted,” said the weatherman, “I don’t know about that, but
it’s not only the owls that have been acting oddly today. Viewers as
far apart as Kent, Yorkshire, and Dundee have been phoning in to
tell me that instead of the rain I promised yesterday, they’ve had a
downpour of shooting stars! Perhaps people have been celebrating
Bonfi re Night early — it’s not until next week, folks! But I can
promise a wet night tonight.”
Mr. Dursley sat frozen in his armchair. Shooting stars all over
Britain? Owls fl ying by daylight? Mysterious people in cloaks all
over the place? And a whisper, a whisper about the Potters .
with the Potters? If it did . . . if it got out that they were related to
a pair of — well, he didn’t think he could bear it.
 e Dursleys got into bed. Mrs. Dursley fell asleep quickly but
Mr. Dursley lay awake, turning it all over in his mind. His last,
comforting thought before he fell asleep was that even if the Potters
were involved, there was no reason for them to come near him and
Mrs. Dursley.  e Potters knew very well what he and Petunia
thought about them and their kind. . . . He couldn’t see how he
and Petunia could get mixed up in anything that might be going
on — he yawned and turned over — it couldn’t aff ect them. . . .
How very wrong he was.
Mr. Dursley might have been drifting into an uneasy sleep, but
the cat on the wall outside was showing no sign of sleepiness. It was
sitting as still as a statue, its eyes fi xed unblinkingly on the far corner
of Privet Drive. It didn’t so much as quiver when a car door
slammed on the next street, nor when two owls swooped overhead.
In fact, it was nearly midnight before the cat moved at all.
A man appeared on the corner the cat had been watching, appeared
so suddenly and silently you’d have thought he’d just
popped out of the ground.  e cat’s tail twitched and its eyes narrowed.
Nothing like this man had ever been seen on Privet Drive. He
was tall, thin, and very old, judging by the silver of his hair and
beard, which were both long enough to tuck into his belt. He was
wearing long robes, a purple cloak that swept the ground, and
high-heeled, buckled boots. His blue eyes were light, bright, and
sparkling behind half-moon spectacles and his nose was very long
and crooked, as though it had been broken at least twice.  is
man’s name was Albus Dum ble dore.

Albus Dum ble dore didn’t seem to realize that he had just arrived
in a street where everything from his name to his boots was unwelcome.
He was busy rummaging in his cloak, looking for something.
But he did seem to realize he was being watched, because he
looked up suddenly at the cat, which was still staring at him from
the other end of the street. For some reason, the sight of the cat
seemed to amuse him. He chuckled and muttered, “I should have
known.”
He found what he was looking for in his inside pocket. It
seemed to be a silver cigarette lighter. He fl icked it open, held it up
in the air, and clicked it.  e nearest street lamp went out with a
little pop. He clicked it again — the next lamp fl ickered into darkness.
Twelve times he clicked the Put-Outer, until the only lights
left on the whole street were two tiny pinpricks in the distance,
which were the eyes of the cat watching him. If anyone looked out
of their window now, even beady-eyed Mrs. Dursley, they wouldn’t
be able to see anything that was happening down on the pavement.
Dum ble dore slipped the Put-Outer back inside his cloak and set
off down the street toward number four, where he sat down on the
wall next to the cat. He didn’t look at it, but after a moment he
spoke to it.
“Fancy seeing you here, Professor McGonagall.”
He turned to smile at the tabby, but it had gone. Instead he was
smiling at a rather severe-looking woman who was wearing square
glasses exactly the shape of the markings the cat had had around its
eyes. She, too, was wearing a cloak, an emerald one. Her black hair
was drawn into a tight bun. She looked distinctly ruffl ed.
“How did you know it was me?” she asked.
“My dear Professor, I’ve never seen a cat sit so stiffly.”

A breeze ruffl ed the neat hedges of Privet Drive, which lay silent
and tidy under the inky sky, the very last place you would expect
astonishing things to happen. Harry Potter rolled over inside his
blankets without waking up. One small hand closed on the letter
beside him and he slept on, not knowing he was special, not knowing
he was famous, not knowing he would be woken in a few
hours’ time by Mrs. Dursley’s scream as she opened the front door
to put out the milk bottles, nor that he would spend the next few
weeks being prodded and pinched by his cousin Dudley. . . . He
couldn’t know that at this very moment, people meeting in secret
all over the country were holding up their glasses and saying in
hushed voices: “To Harry Potter — the boy who lived!”

Nearly ten years had passed since the Dursleys had woken
up to fi nd their nephew on the front step, but Privet Drive
had hardly changed at all.  e sun rose on the same tidy front gardens
and lit up the brass number four on the Dursleys’ front door;
it crept into their living room, which was almost exactly the same
as it had been on the night when Mr. Dursley had seen that fateful
news report about the owls. Only the photographs on the mantelpiece
really showed how much time had passed. Ten years ago,
there had been lots of pictures of what looked like a large pink
beach ball wearing diff erent-colored bonnets — but Dudley Dursley
was no longer a baby, and now the photographs showed a large
blond boy riding his fi rst bicycle, on a carousel at the fair, playing
a computer game with his father, being hugged and kissed by his
mother.  e room held no sign at all that another boy lived in the
house, too.

wanted, not to mention the second television and the racing bike.
Exactly why Dudley wanted a racing bike was a mystery to Harry,
as Dudley was very fat and hated exercise — unless of course it involved
punching somebody. Dudley’s favorite punching bag was
Harry, but he couldn’t often catch him. Harry didn’t look it, but he
was very fast.
Perhaps it had something to do with living in a dark cupboard,
but Harry had always been small and skinny for his age. He looked
even smaller and skinnier than he really was because all he had
to wear were old clothes of Dudley’s, and Dudley was about four
times bigger than he was. Harry had a thin face, knobbly knees,
black hair, and bright green eyes. He wore round glasses held together
with a lot of Scotch tape because of all the times Dudley
had punched him on the nose.  e only thing Harry liked about
his own appearance was a very thin scar on his forehead that was
shaped like a bolt of lightning. He had had it as long as he could
remember, and the fi rst question he could ever remember asking
his Aunt Petunia was how he had gotten it.
“In the car crash when your parents died,” she had said. “And
don’t ask questions.”
Don’t ask questions — that was the fi rst rule for a quiet life with
the Dursleys.
Uncle Vernon entered the kitchen as Harry was turning over the
bacon.
“Comb your hair!” he barked, by way of a morning greeting.
About once a week, Uncle Vernon looked over the top of his
newspaper and shouted that Harry needed a haircut. Harry must
have had more haircuts than the rest of the boys in his class put
way to the zoo for the fi rst time in his life. His aunt and uncle
hadn’t been able to think of anything else to do with him, but before
they’d left, Uncle Vernon had taken Harry aside.
“I’m warning you,” he had said, putting his large purple face
right up close to Harry’s, “I’m warning you now, boy — any funny
business, anything at all — and you’ll be in that cupboard from
now until Christmas.”
“I’m not going to do anything,” said Harry, “honestly . . .”
But Uncle Vernon didn’t believe him. No one ever did.
 e problem was, strange things often happened around Harry
and it was just no good telling the Dursleys he didn’t make them
happen.
Once, Aunt Petunia, tired of Harry coming back from the barbers
looking as though he hadn’t been at all, had taken a pair of
kitchen scissors and cut his hair so short he was almost bald except
for his bangs, which she left “to hide that horrible scar.” Dudley
had laughed himself silly at Harry, who spent a sleepless night
imagining school the next day, where he was already laughed at for
his baggy clothes and taped glasses. Next morning, however, he
had gotten up to fi nd his hair exactly as it had been before Aunt
Petunia had sheared it off . He had been given a week in his cupboard
for this, even though he had tried to explain that he couldn’t
explain how it had grown back so quickly.
Another time, Aunt Petunia had been trying to force him into a
revolting old sweater of Dudley’s (brown with orange puff balls).
 e harder she tried to pull it over his head, the smaller it seemed
to become, until fi nally it might have fi tted a hand puppet, but
 certainly wouldn’t fit Harry. Aunt Petunia had decided it must

have shrunk in the wash and, to his great relief, Harry wasn’t punished.
On the other hand, he’d gotten into terrible trouble for being
found on the roof of the school kitchens. Dudley’s gang had been
chasing him as usual when, as much to Harry’s surprise as anyone
else’s, there he was sitting on the chimney.  e Dursleys had received
a very angry letter from Harry’s headmistress telling them
Harry had been climbing school buildings. But all he’d tried to do
(as he shouted at Uncle Vernon through the locked door of his cupboard)
was jump behind the big trash cans outside the kitchen
doors. Harry supposed that the wind must have caught him in
mid-jump.
But today, nothing was going to go wrong. It was even worth being
with Dudley and Piers to be spending the day somewhere that
wasn’t school, his cupboard, or Mrs. Figg’s cabbage-smelling living
room.
While he drove, Uncle Vernon complained to Aunt Petunia. He
liked to complain about things: people at work, Harry, the council,
Harry, the bank, and Harry were just a few of his favorite subjects.
 is morning, it was motorcycles.
“. . . roaring along like maniacs, the young hoodlums,” he said,
as a motorcycle overtook them.
“I had a dream about a motorcycle,” said Harry, remembering
suddenly. “It was fl ying.”
Uncle Vernon nearly crashed into the car in front. He turned
right around in his seat and yelled at Harry, his face like a gigantic
beet with a mustache: “MOTORCYCLES DON’T FLY!”
Dudley and Piers sniggered.

“I know they don’t,” said Harry. “It was only a dream.”
But he wished he hadn’t said anything. If there was one thing the
Dursleys hated even more than his asking questions, it was his talking
about anything acting in a way it shouldn’t, no matter if it was
in a dream or even a cartoon — they seemed to think he might get
dangerous ideas.
It was a very sunny Saturday and the zoo was crowded with
families.  e Dursleys bought Dudley and Piers large chocolate ice
creams at the entrance and then, because the smiling lady in the
van had asked Harry what he wanted before they could hurry him
away, they bought him a cheap lemon ice pop. It wasn’t bad, either,
Harry thought, licking it as they watched a gorilla scratching its
head who looked remarkably like Dudley, except that it wasn’t
blond.
Harry had the best morning he’d had in a long time. He was
careful to walk a little way apart from the Dursleys so that Dudley
and Piers, who were starting to get bored with the animals by
lunchtime, wouldn’t fall back on their favorite hobby of hitting
him.  ey ate in the zoo restaurant, and when Dudley had a tantrum
because his knickerbocker glory didn’t have enough ice cream
on top, Uncle Vernon bought him another one and Harry was allowed
to fi nish the fi rst.
Harry felt, afterward, that he should have known it was all too
good to last.
After lunch they went to the reptile house. It was cool and dark
in there, with lit windows all along the walls. Behind the glass, all
sorts of lizards and snakes were crawling and slithering over bits of
wood and stone. Dudley and Piers wanted to see huge, poisonous
