And yet it was because of Voldemort that Harry had come to live
with the Dursleys in the first place. If it hadn’t been for Voldemort,
Harry would not have had the lightning scar on his forehead. If it
hadn’t been for Voldemort, Harry would still have had parents. . . .
Harry had been a year old the night that Voldemort — the most
powerful Dark wizard for a century, a wizard who had been gaining
power steadily for eleven years — arrived at his house and
killed his father and mother. Voldemort had then turned his wand
on Harry; he had performed the curse that had disposed of many
full-grown witches and wizards in his steady rise to power — and,
incredibly, it had not worked. Instead of killing the small boy, the
curse had rebounded upon Voldemort. Harry had survived with
nothing but a lightning-shaped cut on his forehead, and Voldemort
had been reduced to something barely alive. His powers gone,
his life almost extinguished, Voldemort had fled; the terror in
which the secret community of witches and wizards had lived for
so long had lifted, Voldemort’s followers had disbanded, and Harry
Potter had become famous.
It had been enough of a shock for Harry to discover, on his eleventh
birthday, that he was a wizard; it had been even more disconcerting
to find out that everyone in the hidden Wizarding world
knew his name. Harry had arrived at Hogwarts to find that heads
turned and whispers followed him wherever he went. But he was
used to it now: At the end of this summer, he would be starting his
fourth year at Hogwarts, and Harry was already counting the days
until he would be back at the castle again.
But there was still a fortnight to go before he went back to
school. He looked hopelessly around his room again, and his eye

paused on the birthday cards his two best friends had sent him at
the end of July. What would they say if Harry wrote to them and
told them about his scar hurting?
At once, Hermione Granger’s voice seemed to fill his head, shrill
and panicky.
“Your scar hurt? Harry, that’s really serious. . . . Write to Professor
Dumbledore! And I’ll go and check Common Magical Ailments and Afflictions.
... Maybe there’s something in there about curse scars. . . . ”
Yes, that would be Hermione’s advice: Go straight to the headmaster
of Hogwarts, and in the meantime, consult a book. Harry
stared out of the window at the inky blue-black sky. He doubted
very much whether a book could help him now. As far as he knew,
he was the only living person to have survived a curse like Voldemort’s;
it was highly unlikely, therefore, that he would find his
symptoms listed in Common Magical Ailments and Afflictions. As
for informing the headmaster, Harry had no idea where Dumbledore
went during the summer holidays. He amused himself for a
moment, picturing Dumbledore, with his long silver beard, fulllength
wizard’s robes, and pointed hat, stretched out on a beach
somewhere, rubbing suntan lotion onto his long crooked nose.
Wherever Dumbledore was, though, Harry was sure that Hedwig
would be able to find him; Harry’s owl had never yet failed to deliver
a letter to anyone, even without an address. But what would
he write?
Dear Professor Dumbledore, Sorry to bother you, but my scar hurt
this morning. Yours sincerely, Harry Potter.
Even inside his head the words sounded stupid.
And so he tried to imagine his other best friend, Ron Weasley’s,

reaction, and in a moment, Ron’s red hair and long-nosed, freckled
face seemed to swim before Harry, wearing a bemused expression.
“Your scar hurt? But . . . but You-Know-Who can’t be near you
now, can he? I mean . . . you’d know, wouldn’t you? He’d be trying to
do you in again, wouldn’t he? I dunno, Harry, maybe curse scars always
twinge a bit. . . . I’ll ask Dad. . . .”
 Mr. Weasley was a fully qualified wizard who worked in the
Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office at the Ministry of Magic, but he
didn’t have any particular expertise in the matter of curses, as far
as Harry knew. In any case, Harry didn’t like the idea of the whole
Weasley family knowing that he, Harry, was getting jumpy about
a few moments’ pain. Mrs. Weasley would fuss worse than Hermione,
and Fred and George, Ron’s sixteen-year-old twin brothers,
might think Harry was losing his nerve. The Weasleys were Harry’s
favorite family in the world; he was hoping that they might invite
him to stay any time now (Ron had mentioned something about
the Quidditch World Cup), and he somehow didn’t want his visit
punctuated with anxious inquiries about his scar.
Harry kneaded his forehead with his knuckles. What he really
wanted (and it felt almost shameful to admit it to himself) was
someone like — someone like a parent: an adult wizard whose advice
he could ask without feeling stupid, someone who cared about
him, who had had experience with Dark Magic. . . .
And then the solution came to him. It was so simple, and so obvious,
that he couldn’t believe it had taken so long — Sirius.
Harry leapt up from the bed, hurried across the room, and sat
down at his desk; he pulled a piece of parchment toward him,
loaded his eagle-feather quill with ink, wrote Dear Sirius, then
paused, wondering how best to phrase his problem, still marveling

at the fact that he hadn’t thought of Sirius straight away. But then,
perhaps it wasn’t so surprising — after all, he had only found out
that Sirius was his godfather two months ago.
There was a simple reason for Sirius’s complete absence from
Harry’s life until then — Sirius had been in Azkaban, the terrifying
wizard jail guarded by creatures called dementors, sightless, soulsucking
fiends who had come to search for Sirius at Hogwarts
when he had escaped. Yet Sirius had been innocent — the murders
for which he had been convicted had been committed by Wormtail,
Voldemort’s supporter, whom nearly everybody now believed
dead. Harry, Ron, and Hermione knew otherwise, however; they
had come face-to-face with Wormtail only the previous year,
though only Professor Dumbledore had believed their story.
For one glorious hour, Harry had believed that he was leaving
the Dursleys at last, because Sirius had offered him a home once
his name had been cleared. But the chance had been snatched away
from him — Wormtail had escaped before they could take him to
the Ministry of Magic, and Sirius had had to flee for his life. Harry
had helped him escape on the back of a hippogriff called Buckbeak,
and since then, Sirius had been on the run. The home Harry might
have had if Wormtail had not escaped had been haunting him all
summer. It had been doubly hard to return to the Dursleys knowing
that he had so nearly escaped them forever.
Nevertheless, Sirius had been of some help to Harry, even if he
couldn’t be with him. It was due to Sirius that Harry now had all
his school things in his bedroom with him. The Dursleys had never
allowed this before; their general wish of keeping Harry as miserable
as possible, coupled with their fear of his powers, had led them
to lock his school trunk in the cupboard under the stairs every

summer prior to this. But their attitude had changed since they
had found out that Harry had a dangerous murderer for a godfather
— for Harry had conveniently forgotten to tell them that
Sirius was innocent.
Harry had received two letters from Sirius since he had been
back at Privet Drive. Both had been delivered, not by owls (as was
usual with wizards), but by large, brightly colored tropical birds.
Hedwig had not approved of these flashy intruders; she had been
most reluctant to allow them to drink from her water tray before
flying off again. Harry, on the other hand, had liked them; they
put him in mind of palm trees and white sand, and he hoped that,
wherever Sirius was (Sirius never said, in case the letters were intercepted),
he was enjoying himself. Somehow, Harry found it hard to
imagine dementors surviving for long in bright sunlight; perhaps
that was why Sirius had gone south. Sirius’s letters, which were
now hidden beneath the highly useful loose floorboard under Harry’s
bed, sounded cheerful, and in both of them he had reminded
Harry to call on him if ever Harry needed to. Well, he needed to
now, all right. . . .
Harry’s lamp seemed to grow dimmer as the cold gray light that
precedes sunrise slowly crept into the room. Finally, when the sun
had risen, when his bedroom walls had turned gold, and when
sounds of movement could be heard from Uncle Vernon and Aunt
Petunia’s room, Harry cleared his desk of crumpled pieces of parchment
and reread his finished letter.
Dear Sirius,
Thanks for your last letter. That bird was enormous; it
could hardly get through my window.

Things are the same as usual here. Dudley’s diet isn’t going
too well. My aunt found him smuggling doughnuts into his
room yesterday. They told him they’d have to cut his pocket
money if he keeps doing it, so he got really angry and chucked
his PlayStation out of the window. That’s a sort of computer
thing you can play games on. Bit stupid really, now he hasn’t
even got Mega-Mutilation Part Three to take his mind off
things.
I’m okay, mainly because the Dursleys are terrified you
might turn up and turn them all into bats if I ask you to.
A weird thing happened this morning, though. My scar
hurt again. Last time that happened it was because Voldemort
was at Hogwarts. But I don’t reckon he can be anywhere near
me now, can he? Do you know if curse scars sometimes hurt
years afterward?
I’ll send this with Hedwig when she gets back; she’s off hunting
at the moment. Say hello to Buckbeak for me.
Yes, thought Harry, that looked all right. There was no point putting
in the dream; he didn’t want it to look as though he was too
worried. He folded up the parchment and laid it aside on his desk,
ready for when Hedwig returned. Then he got to his feet, stretched,
and opened his wardrobe once more. Without glancing at his reflection,
he started to get dressed before going down to breakfast.

By the time Harry arrived in the kitchen, the three Dursleys
were already seated around the table. None of them looked up
as he entered or sat down. Uncle Vernon’s large red face was hidden
behind the morning’s Daily Mail, and Aunt Petunia was cutting a
grapefruit into quarters, her lips pursed over her horselike teeth.
Dudley looked furious and sulky, and somehow seemed to be
taking up even more space than usual. This was saying something,
as he always took up an entire side of the square table by himself.
When Aunt Petunia put a quarter of unsweetened grapefruit onto
Dudley’s plate with a tremulous “There you are, Diddy darling,”
Dudley glowered at her. His life had taken a most unpleasant
turn since he had come home for the summer with his end-of-year
report.
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia had managed to find excuses
for his bad marks as usual: Aunt Petunia always insisted that Dudley
was a very gifted boy whose teachers didn’t understand him,

while Uncle Vernon maintained that “he didn’t want some swotty
little nancy boy for a son anyway.” They also skated over the accusations
of bullying in the report — “He’s a boisterous little boy, but
he wouldn’t hurt a fly!” Aunt Petunia had said tearfully.
However, at the bottom of the report there were a few wellchosen
comments from the school nurse that not even Uncle Vernon
and Aunt Petunia could explain away. No matter how much
Aunt Petunia wailed that Dudley was big-boned, and that his
poundage was really puppy fat, and that he was a growing boy who
needed plenty of food, the fact remained that the school outfitters
didn’t stock knickerbockers big enough for him anymore. The
school nurse had seen what Aunt Petunia’s eyes — so sharp when
it came to spotting fingerprints on her gleaming walls, and in observing
the comings and goings of the neighbors — simply refused
to see: that far from needing extra nourishment, Dudley had
reached roughly the size and weight of a young killer whale.
So — after many tantrums, after arguments that shook Harry’s
bedroom floor, and many tears from Aunt Petunia — the new
regime had begun. The diet sheet that had been sent by the Smeltings
school nurse had been taped to the fridge, which had been
emptied of all Dudley’s favorite things — fizzy drinks and cakes,
chocolate bars and burgers — and filled instead with fruit and vegetables
and the sorts of things that Uncle Vernon called “rabbit
food.” To make Dudley feel better about it all, Aunt Petunia had
insisted that the whole family follow the diet too. She now passed
a grapefruit quarter to Harry. He noticed that it was a lot smaller
than Dudley’s. Aunt Petunia seemed to feel that the best way to
keep up Dudley’s morale was to make sure that he did, at least, get
more to eat than Harry.

But Aunt Petunia didn’t know what was hidden under the loose
floorboard upstairs. She had no idea that Harry was not following
the diet at all. The moment he had got wind of the fact that he was
expected to survive the summer on carrot sticks, Harry had sent
Hedwig to his friends with pleas for help, and they had risen to
the occasion magnificently. Hedwig had returned from Hermione’s
house with a large box stuffed full of sugar-free snacks. (Hermione’s
parents were dentists.) Hagrid, the Hogwarts gamekeeper, had
obliged with a sack full of his own homemade rock cakes. (Harry
hadn’t touched these; he had had too much experience of Hagrid’s
cooking.) Mrs. Weasley, however, had sent the family owl, Errol,
with an enormous fruitcake and assorted meat pies. Poor Errol, who
was elderly and feeble, had needed a full five days to recover from
the journey. And then on Harry’s birthday (which the Dursleys had
completely ignored) he had received four superb birthday cakes, one
each from Ron, Hermione, Hagrid, and Sirius. Harry still had two
of them left, and so, looking forward to a real breakfast when he got
back upstairs, he ate his grapefruit without complaint.
Uncle Vernon laid aside his paper with a deep sniff of disapproval
and looked down at his own grapefruit quarter.
“Is this it?” he said grumpily to Aunt Petunia.
Aunt Petunia gave him a severe look, and then nodded pointedly
at Dudley, who had already finished his own grapefruit quarter and
was eyeing Harry’s with a very sour look in his piggy little eyes.
Uncle Vernon gave a great sigh, which ruffled his large, bushy
mustache, and picked up his spoon.
The doorbell rang. Uncle Vernon heaved himself out of his chair
and set off down the hall. Quick as a flash, while his mother was

occupied with the kettle, Dudley stole the rest of Uncle Vernon’s
grapefruit.
Harry heard talking at the door, and someone laughing, and
Uncle Vernon answering curtly. Then the front door closed, and
the sound of ripping paper came from the hall.
Aunt Petunia set the teapot down on the table and looked curiously
around to see where Uncle Vernon had got to. She didn’t have
to wait long to find out; after about a minute, he was back. He
looked livid.
“You,” he barked at Harry. “In the living room. Now.”
Bewildered, wondering what on earth he was supposed to have
done this time, Harry got up and followed Uncle Vernon out of
the kitchen and into the next room. Uncle Vernon closed the door
sharply behind both of them.
“So,” he said, marching over to the fireplace and turning to face
Harry as though he were about to pronounce him under arrest.
“So.”
Harry would have dearly loved to have said, “So what?” but he
didn’t feel that Uncle Vernon’s temper should be tested this early in
the morning, especially when it was already under severe strain from
lack of food. He therefore settled for looking politely puzzled.
“This just arrived,” said Uncle Vernon. He brandished a piece of
purple writing paper at Harry. “A letter. About you.”
Harry’s confusion increased. Who would be writing to Uncle
Vernon about him? Who did he know who sent letters by the
postman?
Uncle Vernon glared at Harry, then looked down at the letter
and began to read aloud:

Dear Mr. and Mrs. Dursley,
We have never been introduced, but I am sure you have
heard a great deal from Harry about my son Ron.
As Harry might have told you, the final of the Quidditch
World Cup takes place this Monday night, and my husband,
Arthur, has just managed to get prime tickets through his connections
at the Department of Magical Games and Sports.
I do hope you will allow us to take Harry to the match, as
this really is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity; Britain hasn’t
hosted the Cup for thirty years, and tickets are extremely hard
to come by. We would of course be glad to have Harry stay for
the remainder of the summer holidays, and to see him safely
onto the train back to school.
It would be best for Harry to send us your answer as quickly
as possible in the normal way, because the Muggle postman has
never delivered to our house, and I am not sure he even knows
where it is.
Hoping to see Harry soon,
Yours sincerely,
P.S. I do hope we’ve put enough stamps on.
Uncle Vernon finished reading, put his hand back into his breast
pocket, and drew out something else.
“Look at this,” he growled.
He held up the envelope in which Mrs. Weasley’s letter had
come, and Harry had to fight down a laugh. Every bit of it was
covered in stamps except for a square inch on the front, into

which Mrs. Weasley had squeezed the Dursleys’ address in minute
writing.
“She did put enough stamps on, then,” said Harry, trying to
sound as though Mrs. Weasley’s was a mistake anyone could make.
His uncle’s eyes flashed.
“The postman noticed,” he said through gritted teeth. “Very interested
to know where this letter came from, he was. That’s why he
rang the doorbell. Seemed to think it was funny.”
Harry didn’t say anything. Other people might not understand
why Uncle Vernon was making a fuss about too many stamps,
but Harry had lived with the Dursleys too long not to know how
touchy they were about anything even slightly out of the ordinary.
Their worst fear was that someone would find out that they were
connected (however distantly) with people like Mrs. Weasley.
Uncle Vernon was still glaring at Harry, who tried to keep his
expression neutral. If he didn’t do or say anything stupid, he might
just be in for the treat of a lifetime. He waited for Uncle Vernon to
say something, but he merely continued to glare. Harry decided to
break the silence.
“So — can I go then?” he asked.
A slight spasm crossed Uncle Vernon’s large purple face. The
mustache bristled. Harry thought he knew what was going on behind
the mustache: a furious battle as two of Uncle Vernon’s most
fundamental instincts came into conflict. Allowing Harry to go
would make Harry happy, something Uncle Vernon had struggled
against for thirteen years. On the other hand, allowing Harry to
disappear to the Weasleys’ for the rest of the summer would get
rid of him two weeks earlier than anyone could have hoped, and
Uncle Vernon hated having Harry in the house. To give himself

thinking time, it seemed, he looked down at Mrs. Weasley’s letter
again.
“Who is this woman?” he said, staring at the signature with
distaste.
“You’ve seen her,” said Harry. “She’s my friend Ron’s mother, she
was meeting him off the Hog — off the school train at the end of
last term.”
He had almost said “Hogwarts Express,” and that was a sure way
to get his uncle’s temper up. Nobody ever mentioned the name of
Harry’s school aloud in the Dursley household.
Uncle Vernon screwed up his enormous face as though trying to
remember something very unpleasant.
“Dumpy sort of woman?” he growled finally. “Load of children
with red hair?”
Harry frowned. He thought it was a bit rich of Uncle Vernon
to call anyone “dumpy,” when his own son, Dudley, had finally
achieved what he’d been threatening to do since the age of three,
and become wider than he was tall.
Uncle Vernon was perusing the letter again.
“Quidditch,” he muttered under his breath. “Quidditch — what
is this rubbish?”
Harry felt a second stab of annoyance.
“It’s a sport,” he said shortly. “Played on broom —”
“All right, all right!” said Uncle Vernon loudly. Harry saw, with
some satisfaction, that his uncle looked vaguely panicky. Apparently
his nerves couldn’t stand the sound of the word “broomsticks”
in his living room. He took refuge in perusing the letter
again. Harry saw his lips form the words “send us your answer . . .
in the normal way.” He scowled.

“What does she mean, ‘the normal way’?” he spat.
“Normal for us,” said Harry, and before his uncle could stop
him, he added, “you know, owl post. That’s what’s normal for
wizards.”
Uncle Vernon looked as outraged as if Harry had just uttered a
disgusting swearword. Shaking with anger, he shot a nervous look
through the window, as though expecting to see some of the neighbors
with their ears pressed against the glass.
“How many times do I have to tell you not to mention that unnaturalness
under my roof?” he hissed, his face now a rich plum
color. “You stand there, in the clothes Petunia and I have put on
your ungrateful back —”
“Only after Dudley finished with them,” said Harry coldly, and
indeed, he was dressed in a sweatshirt so large for him that he had
had to roll back the sleeves five times so as to be able to use his
hands, and which fell past the knees of his extremely baggy jeans.
“I will not be spoken to like that!” said Uncle Vernon, trembling
with rage.
But Harry wasn’t going to stand for this. Gone were the days
when he had been forced to take every single one of the Dursleys’
stupid rules. He wasn’t following Dudley’s diet, and he wasn’t going
to let Uncle Vernon stop him from going to the Quidditch World
Cup, not if he could help it. Harry took a deep, steadying breath
and then said, “Okay, I can’t see the World Cup. Can I go now,
then? Only I’ve got a letter to Sirius I want to finish. You know —
my godfather.”
He had done it. He had said the magic words. Now he watched
the purple recede blotchily from Uncle Vernon’s face, making it
look like badly mixed black currant ice cream.

“You’re — you’re writing to him, are you?” said Uncle Vernon,
in a would-be calm voice — but Harry had seen the pupils of his
tiny eyes contract with sudden fear.
“Well — yeah,” said Harry, casually. “It’s been a while since he
heard from me, and, you know, if he doesn’t, he might start thinking
something’s wrong.”
