If you're looking for a machine that's going to handle whatever you can throw at it, you're going to want the MacBook Pro.
If you're looking for something that's portable and more than capable of handling every day tasks,
you're going to want to look at the MacBook Air. And if you want the newest technology, the latest form factor,
the ultimate in portability, and you don't mind the price tag, the MacBook is the machine for you.
The Retina MacBook Pro is Apple's workhorse MacBook, with the fastest processors, the best graphics,
and the most available RAM (via upgrade). If you want to do things like serious photo, video, or audio editing,
this is the Mac for you. Use Photoshop, Final Cut Pro, or Logic Pro X on a regular basis? You probably need a MacBook Pro.

You're also going to want to choose a MacBook Pro if you want a machine capable of playing modern system-intensive games.
Don't care about games and just want to do things like browse the Internet, write papers, and answer emails?
The MacBook Pro may be more computer than you need -- consider a MacBook Air if you don't care about a Retina screen,
or a MacBook if you don't mind the price.
Within the MacBook Pro family, there are 13 and 15-inch models and several different configurations at various price points.
As the price goes up, so does the power. Most of Apple's MacBook Pro models have a Retina screen, aside from the 13-inch
MacBook Pro priced at $1,099. You don't want to buy this model -- it's years old and technologically lagging way behind newer models.

In the past, many people have chosen a MacBook Pro because it was the only notebook that offered a Retina display,
but with the recent addition of the 12-inch two-pound MacBook, there's no longer a need to compromise between portability
and a decent display. If you don't need the power of a MacBook Pro but want a Retina display, the MacBook is now the machine to choose.
The MacBook Pro is Apple's most powerful notebook, but be warned: it's also the biggest and heaviest.
The 13-inch version weighs in at 3.48 pounds and the 15-inch version is 4.46 pounds. That doesn't sound like much in print,
but carrying four pounds on your back all day is a lot more taxing than 2 or 3 -- the weight of Apple's lighter notebooks.
All Retina MacBook Pro models have two thunderbolt ports and two USB 3.0 ports, along with an HDMI port, a headphone port, and an SD card slot.
So, 13-inch or 15-inch? The 15-inch machines are more powerful, with quad-core processors, Intel Iris Pro Graphics,
and the option for a discrete graphics card, and (obviously) a bigger display, but they're also more expensive.
The 13-inch models have dual-core processors and are limited to integrated graphics.
After a recent update to the 15-inch model, both the 13 and 15-inch Retina MacBook Pros come with a pretty cool Force Touch trackpad that has new gestures, and they've got speedier flash storage.

The 13-inch Retina MacBook Pro was last updated in March of 2015 and the 15-inch model was last updated in May of 2015.
The 13-inch model got new Broadwell processors, but the 15-inch model continues to use Crystalwell processors in the Haswell family.
These aren't quite as speedy or efficient as Broadwell processors, but Intel's delays have prevented Apple from introducing processor upgrades.
We don't expect to see another update to the 15-inch Retina MacBook Pro for several months to come,
but the next model will use improved Broadwell or Skylake processors.
All of these models have custom build-to-order options that let you boost the processor, the SSD, and the RAM for extra money. On the high end, you can get a 13-inch Retina MacBook Pro with a 3.1GHz dual-core Broadwell processor, 16GB RAM, and a 1TB SSD or a 15-inch Retina MacBook Pro with a 2.8GHz quad-core Crystallwell processor, 16GB RAM, and a 1TB SSD.

Beyond choosing a specific MacBook Pro model, you also need to decide whether you want to make any additional build-to-order upgrades.
It's important to note that these components can't be upgraded later, so you need to think ahead to what you might need in the future.
Upgrading the RAM or the CPU will keep your machine feeling fast longer.
Need a ton of storage space for videos and photos? Get the storage upgrade.
Want the best gaming performance? You'll want to opt for the higher-end 15-inch Retina MacBook, which has a discrete graphics card.
Do complex 3D modeling, intensive video/audio/photo editing tasks often? The extra RAM might be worthwhile.
Individual workloads are going to vary significantly,
so there's no one-size-fits-all solution for all users -- that's why Apple offers so many options.
When deciding between a 15-inch model and a 13-inch model, aside from display size and price, the biggest difference is the processor.
With the 15-inch model, you're getting a quad-core processor, but with the 13-inch model, it's dual-core.
Quad-core processors are better if you plan to do a lot of multitasking with many apps open at once,
or if you plan on playing intensive games, you'll benefit from a quad-core processor.
Single-core performance between the two MacBooks is similar,
but multi-core performance is much better in the quad-core 15-inch Retina MacBook Pro.
Need the ultimate in power and money is no object? Go with the 15-inch model.
On a budget but still want more power than a MacBook Air will provide? Get the 13-inch Retina MacBook Pro.
It's still a powerful machine that's going to do all of your photo, video, and audio editing tasks with ease.

The MacBook Air used to be Apple's most portable computer, but with the introduction of the 12-inch super thin MacBook,
it's now just Apple's most affordable notebook. Its low price tag comes at a cost -- it's the only notebook in Apple's
lineup without a Retina display. The 11-inch model's display has a resolution of 1366 x 768, while the 13-inch model's display
has a resolution of 1440 x 900.
It's not Apple's lightest portable notebook anymore (that title goes to the 2.03-pound MacBook),
but the MacBook Air is still lighter and thinner than the Retina MacBook Pro. The 11-inch model weighs in at 2.38 pounds,
while the 13-inch model weighs 2.96 pounds. Both models are 0.68 inches thick.
If you're on a budget and need a portable laptop for under $1,000 that's powerful enough for your day to day needs like web browsing,
email, and light application use, the MacBook Air is the notebook to choose. It'll handle some games and apps like Photoshop and Final Cut Pro,
but it won't do as well as the MacBook Pro. If you have a bigger budget, the Retina displays of the MacBook Pro and the MacBook are worth the extra money.
There is another situation where you might want to choose the MacBook Air over the MacBook or the MacBook Pro,
and that's if you need portability and ports. The MacBook Pro is heavier (and thus less portable),
and while the MacBook is thinner and lighter, it's only got one USB-C port, which might not fit into some workflows.
If you need Thunderbolt and standard USB ports, don't want to deal with adapters, and don't mind the lack of a Retina display,
the MacBook Air might be the machine for you.

You might think I’m insane, but I ride NJ Transit for about 1.5 hours each way to New York, and I use that time to catch up on writing, editing and other work that meetings push off.
If there’s one laptop that’s tailor-made for long, cramped bus rides, this is it. The low profile of the MacBook’s display made it easy to catch up on
email even when commuters in front of me reclined. Usually, with the 13-inch Air, I need to either recline myself or bring the system much
closer to my body, resulting in a very cramped typing experience.
What I didn’t appreciate was having to plug in a $19 dongle before I could connect a traditional USB device,
such as my Verizon 4G hotspot. I sometimes forget to charge the hotspot at night, so I’ll use my MacBook Air’s USB port for juice on the go.
With the MacBook, I had to connect the adapter to the laptop and then plug the micro-USB cable for the hotspot into that.
I typically left this cable plugged into the dongle in my bag.
The MacBook’s battery held up well, for the most part. The system lasted 8 hours and 43 minutes on our battery test,
which involves continuous Web surfing, but that was at a lower brightness than I use, and the test has built-in pauses.
When I’m working, I’m constantly pulling up new websites. Nevertheless, even under the most strenuous conditions, I still had 50
percent power left after an especially bad 2-hour commute.

“It’s so small.” That’s the first thing my wife said when I pulled the new MacBook out of my bag and placed it on the dining room table.
It wasn’t a compliment. Her tone implied, “Why are you using something so small instead of a full-size computer?”
It’s true that the MacBook’s display is on the small side, but Apple makes up for that with a high resolution (2304 x 1440 pixels)
and saturated colors. In fact, the washed-out screen on the 13-inch Air literally pales in comparison to this display. But if you
prefer a larger canvas, this definitely isn’t the system for you.
Once I arrived, colleagues and visitors often remarked how slick the MacBook looked compared to my usual 13-inch Air, but they also wondered
whether it was practical. In this sort of setting, it was fine. I could take notes with ease, and also found the Force Touch
clickpad to be very smooth and accurate. I liked that I got the same clicky feedback no matter where my finger landed on the pad.
I wish I could have tested out the MacBook as my primary PC and swapped it out for my 2013 MacBook Pro, but it’s just not possible.
For one, the MacBook doesn’t support dual-monitor setups, which is a deal breaker for the way I work. And even if I wanted to
attach a bigger new Apple monitor, I couldn’t do that because the MacBook doesn’t support Thunderbolt connections. I’d have to go
with an HDMI monitor if I opted for Apple’s Multiport Adapter.
But I was also surprised by how much I missed Apple’s MagSafe power adapter,
which is found on the Air and MacBook Pro. Sure, the USB-C connector on the MacBook’s power adapter is reversible,
so you can’t connect the power adapter the wrong way, but I like how the MagSafe magnetically attaches and lights up to let
you know that it’s connected. I can also attach MagSafe to the Air without barely looking; with USB-C, you have to line up the
connector before inserting it.

As on-the-go computers go, the MacBook has nearly everything I want, but now that my monthlong test drive is over,
I have mixed feelings. On the plus side, the MacBook is wonderfully thin and light, lasts long enough on a charge,
and is surprisingly comfortable to use (keyboard learning curve aside). However, having to schlep around and plug in dongles to
get the basic functionality I’m accustomed to from the cheaper 13-inch Air grew frustrating. It made me question the $1,299 price tag.
Now that I’m going back to my Air, I’m going to miss the MacBook’s sheer portability, and especially it’s sharper and richer display.
But I’d rather carry around an extra pound to get more horsepower and ports. I’ll wait for a Retina Air.

Even after getting accustomed to it enough to type at my full speed — or maybe even a bit faster — its limited key-travel depth
and keyswitch feel not only make it feel much worse, but also make typing much more error-prone for me. You have to use so little
downward force to type quickly and keep from uncomfortably “bottoming out” that I often miss keypresses, not because I didn’t hit
the correct key, but because I just didn’t press it hard enough.
The extremely shallow key travel is partly to blame, but so is the keyswitch feel. They’re more like clicky buttons than keyboard keys,
feeling almost like the iPhone’s Home button. They don’t engage or actuate — they snap. This makes it harder to modulate downward force
while typing on them, especially from your weaker outer fingers.
I can type on the MacBook, but I’d rather not.
What I hadn’t considered was that even though I had common tasks that could fit within the MacBook’s limited specs — email,
writing, chat — all of them required a lot of typing. Oops.

For all of these tradeoffs, the MacBook is ridiculously small and light. When comparing it in the store against its next-smallest Retina sibling,
the 13-inch Retina MacBook Pro, it’s not even close — there’s a vast gap between them. It even feels like a major improvement over the MacBook Airs,
which are already extremely small and light.
The MacBook just looks and feels like the obvious, no-brainer choice for a small Mac. That’s why people buy it. That’s why I bought it.
I loved it before I bought it. I love looking at it and picking it up.
I just hate using it.
I hate typing on it, I hate the trackpad, it’s slower than I expected, the screen is noticeably blurry from non-native scaling to get
reasonable screen space, and I don’t even find it very comfortable to use in my lap because it’s too small.
I hate returning things, but I’m returning this.
I can see why a lot of people love it. Not everyone hates the keyboard and trackpad as much as I do. If I were carrying my laptop for a
long time in a shoulder bag every day (which I was when I got the 2008 Air), this would be a welcome weight reduction. If I frequently
worked on airline tray tables in economy with the person reclined in front of me, the extremely small size might make the difference
between being able to use my laptop or not.
But all of those benefits are also available in the 11-inch MacBook Air. It has a far better keyboard and trackpad, more ports, and
faster performance. The only major downsides are the lack of a Retina screen and less screen space.
The 11-inch MacBook Air shows that the MacBook’s compromises have nothing to do with going Retina — the One has roughly the same GPU,
less horsepower, less space, less weight, and a smaller battery, yet still drives a Retina screen perfectly well. Apple could have
made a Retina MacBook Air instead of (or in addition to) this new MacBook, but chose not to.
Instead, we have major compromises on previous invariants. Until now, since I started buying Macs 11 years ago, Apple had never shipped
a laptop with a keyboard or trackpad that was less than great. They recognized that a laptop without a good keyboard wasn’t a good laptop,
even if a lot of people would be OK with it and buy it anyway.
Now, Apple’s priorities have changed. Rather than make really great products that are mostly thin, they now make really thin products
that are mostly great.
This concerns me more than you probably think it should. Not only does it represent compromised standards in areas I believe are important,
but it suggests that they don’t have many better ideas to advance the products beyond making them thinner, and they’re willing to sacrifice
anything to keep that going.

The 15-inch Retina MacBook Pro hasn’t changed much since my impulse buy in 2012. Today, Apple updated them, but it’s a very minor update —
the aging Haswell CPUs are unchanged from last year and barely changed since 2013, held back by Intel’s Broadwell delays, and the current
base model is only 11% faster than the one I bought in 2012. Even today’s highest-end CPU is only 24% faster than my 2012 base model.
There’s still no USB-C, no LCD improvements since 2012, and nearly the same battery life as last year’s model.2 They now have Force Touch
trackpads, but I consider that a downgrade.
The base-model 15-inch is usually a fantastic deal, and this generation is no exception — I’d say it’s the best laptop value in the lineup
for a power user, only spending extra for more storage if you need it.3
In the last 11 years, when I’ve had smaller laptops, I’ve often run into their limits. But I’ve never regretted buying a 15-inch. It always
serves me better, doesn’t leave me wanting more power or screen space, and just feels right.
It’s not sexy, it’s not cool, and it may never be again. But neither will I.
It’s heavier than Apple’s smaller laptops, but it’s not heavy, really. It’s about the same weight as the original white plastic 13-inch MacBook,
which we all thought was incredibly light and portable.
I want more battery life, but I can get most of the way there by just getting a new 15-inch: they’re now offered without discrete
GPUs (which drain power and kill logic boards for benefits I don’t need), Haswell is more power-efficient than my Ivy Bridge core,
and anything I buy today will have a battery that’s three years newer. The CPU will only be 11% faster, but it’s already fast enough
for my work, and the new ones have twice as much RAM. This one has lasted three years and still works well enough that I can sell it
for a good price or give it to a family member.
Since I don’t like Force Touch trackpads and the new models offer nothing else I need, I just ordered yesterday’s base model for $1850
before it goes out of stock — an even better value than usual. Today’s hardware at yesterday’s prices.
It has a great keyboard, great trackpad, the largest screen available, tons of ports, and tons of horsepower. It can do everything I need
a laptop to do, and I’ll enjoy every minute of using it. The only major compromise is the size, but now that I’ve seen the other side,
I’m OK with that.

've owned the 2015 MacBook for just over a month now. I've had a remarkably good time using it so far, and just yesterday I decided to
upgrade my installation of Windows 8.1 to the Windows 10 Insider Preview. I had tried it out a couple months earlier through a virtual machine,
and at the time I wasn't sure I wanted it as my main operating system. But after taking the plunge, I'm very happy to be using it. I wanted
to record a few thoughts about it for others curious about the new OS, especially its usability and performance on this new hardware.
Setting up was easy. I opted to install from Windows 8.1, which still installs a fresh copy of the operating system, but it's easier than
creating installation media from scratch. I did, however, make sure to re-download Apple's latest Boot Camp drivers through Boot Camp
Assistant before installing. These saved to an external USB drive that I left plugged in during the installation. Things proceeded typically.
If you've ever installed Windows 8.1 on a Mac, you'll recognize the process; not a lot has changed. Fortunately, upon finishing the installation,
the Boot Camp drivers were automatically recognized on the USB drive and installed, which is what is supposed to happen. Unfortunately,
not every driver installed successfully the first time around. For example, I was able to modify volume with Apple's native UI popup, but
brightness (which uses the built-in Windows switcher) didn't change. The all-important system tray application for modifying trackpad
settings and quickly booting back into OS X also wasn't present. I rebooted and chose to re-run the driver installation after "troubleshooting
compatibility", where Windows recommended that it skip the forced version check. That fixed things. Apple still curiously doesn't provide
a Bluetooth driver in this driver package, but everything else works.

Years ago I discovered Trackpad++, a driver solution to bring the functionality of Apple trackpads closer to how they behave on OS X,
and closer to how high-end trackpads now behave on Windows. I didn't actually have it installed on my old Mac's Windows partition, but I
highly recommend installing it now. The developer's website looks straight out of the 90s and not terribly trustworthy, but he has a strong
reputation, and the driver was recently updated for the 12-inch MacBook and Windows 10. You'll also need to install another application to
allow the new trackpad driver to be installed, but it's worth it. With Trackpad++, I have three finger drag, two finger swiping for forward/back,
as well as two finger swiping in from the edge to access the new Notifications pane. I even have four finger swipe access to Task View,
(just like how I access Mission Control on OS X), which may be my favorite feature in Windows 10.
Continuing to move in, I realized that Windows 10 was kind of gorgeous. Little design touches have really improved the way things look,
such as the switch to circular account pictures on the login screen. I found that I had to switch desktop scaling to 150% for the size of
everything to be just right, but that was a nice compromise between readability and screen real estate. As is typical of high DPI screens on
Windows, not every application scales natively right now, causing some to look blurry. Steam is a notable example. But many things are now
upscaled, such as Microsoft's desktop OneNote application, and generally things look great. The same thing happened on OS X when Retina
displays were first added to Macs, but obviously Windows has a larger variety of software, and much less forced adoption of devices with
high DPI displays. In time, most everything will be revised to take advantage of these nicer screens, but I do wonder if legacy applications
that have long since stopped receiving updates will just be blurry (or super small) forever.

I should also amend my review of the MacBook to state that some 3D games actually perform pretty well. I was able to keep Left 4 Dead 2 at a
near-steady 60FPS running at 1280x800 and medium settings. Things occasionally slowed down by ~10FPS when there were a lot of enemies on screen,
but I was legitimately impressed with how well it looked at that resolution and those settings. Had I dropped the visual settings to absolute
minimums, I bet the frame drops would have disappeared.
I also was able to emulate Super Smash Bros. Melee with Dolphin at a steady 60FPS. And, of course, a 2D game like Super Meat Boy ran beautifully
well at full Retina resolution, having no problem playing at full speed. Overall, gaming isn't guaranteed to be good on this machine,
but the spectrum of PC game performance is just massive, and I failed to account for that in my original review. Some games, like Valve's Left
4 Dead 2 (and similarly Dota 2, which I've heard runs very well), are produced by a developer that prides itself on optimization and efficiency,
even on poor hardware. Others, like Dishonored and Cities: Skylines, just aren't designed with integrated graphics in mind. (In Cities:
Skylines' case, the developer acknowledged this shortly after release.) I'm happy that I revisted 3D games on this machine, because now I
have a rosier outlook than before.

The biggest struggle I had in Windows 10 was getting the above screenshot. Without a PrintScreen key, I had to download some software to let
me take a timed screenshot. One thing I miss from OS X is the Cmd+Shift+3 shortcut. However, the above screenshot represents the sort of
multitasking that was easily achievable. I'm impressed with performance.
Elsewhere, things are great. Cortana is an excellent addition, and I think it's only a matter of time before Apple rolls Siri into OS X somehow.
Being able to say "Hey Cortana, what's the weather going to be like tomorrow?" from across the room is really, really cool. Battery life seemed
very good from the short time I used it. I didn't fully deplete the battery, but I was on track to get over 9 hours of use with brightness at
40%. Mac battery life is rarely as strong on Windows, but there doesn't seem to be as enormous of a gap here, which is good. Then there's
Task View, Microsoft's answer to Mission Control, which is excellent. It behaves like Mission Control does on OS X, meaning it displays all
open windows, as well as simulated desktops. This is an absolutely fantastic feature.
Here's the real kicker: it's fast. It's smooth. It renders at 60FPS unless you have a lot going on. It's unequivocally better than
performance on OS X, further leading me to believe that Apple really needs to overhaul how animations are done. Even when I turn Transparency
off in OS X, Mission Control isn't completely smooth. Here, even after some Aero Glass transparency has been added in, everything is smooth.
It's remarkable, and it makes me believe in the 12-inch MacBook more than ever before.
So maybe it's ironic that in some regards, the new MacBook runs Windows 10 (a prerelease version, at that) better than it runs OS X.
But it's a testament to two things: Apple's fantastic MacBook hardware, which is forward-thinking yet surprisingly agile; and Microsoft's
excellent Windows software, which entices and excites with its beautiful interface, useful new features, and rock-solid UI transitions.
I'm excited to keep Windows 10 installed on this machine, both now as a preview, and later once the final version is installed. Even hardened
OS X diehards owe it to themselves to give it a try.
Update 5/15/15: The response to this article has been astounding, and I really appreciate all of the feedback I’ve gotten on it. I want to do
my best to clear up a few specific points that I originally glossed over in the original piece.
First, OS X on the MacBook exhibits UI stuttering even at the non-downscaled resolution of 1152x720. This resolution causes things to be
laughably large, and I doubt many use it, but it is necessary to take into account. Otherwise, it could lend Windows an unfair advantage,
as Windows doesn’t use downscaling to manage UI resizing. I mentioned this in my review, but I did not reiterate it here.
Second, I was a bit vague about the difference in performance between Mission Control and Task View. Task View does slow down to less than
60FPS, and that can happen when only a handful of applications are open, not just when “a lot is going on.” It does, however, seem to
have a higher tolerance, performing better per number of windows open than Mission Control. It is difficult to compare these two operating
systems fairly, because Windows 10 is still very much beta software, and sometimes it has slowdowns that don’t seem otherwise characteristic
of its performance. For example, sometimes Task View has a slight delay before running, but so does the Start Menu. Windows 8.1 does not exhibit
this. Other times, Task View and the Start Menu respond without delay.

I cannot guarantee that Task View often runs at 60FPS, as I haven't yet found a working measuring tool, but to my eyes, there are no stutters
or frame drops in the super-smooth animation. In other words, it looks like 60FPS, and it looks much better than transitions on OS X. I want
to quantify this claim. and I am still looking for software that will track UI performance on Windows, but with Quartz Debug, an OS X 
profiling tool, I found that Mission Control hovered around 41FPS for 720p and 37FPS for 900p, the latter of which is ideal for screen real
estate. Because Apple does not cap Mission Control at 30FPS or something else, and because inertial scrolling and Space-switching more
frequently operate at 60FPS, it is reasonable to assume that Apple expects Mission Control to be able to reach 60FPS too. Thus, framerates
in the high 30s and low 40s stick out.
Until thorough benchmarking is completed by me or someone else, I think the best way to put it is this: Task View often runs at 60FPS, while
Mission Control never runs at 60FPS.
Overall, UI speed is only one metric of speed, and articles claiming that I found Windows 10 to be faster than OS X are missing the point.
My initial impressions of Windows 10 were very good, and for those who are able to test both operating systems themselves,
it should be evident that Windows 10 appears to have a higher tolerance for smooth UI transitions than OS X does.
